This document describes the Vapor 55 American All-Electric Helicopter UAS.

The all-electric VAPOR 55 Helicopter UAS delivers flight control performance, endurance, and payload flexibility. Featuring military-grade components, intelligent HW/SW system design, and high energy density lithium-polymer
battery, VAPOR delivers enhanced flight stability and up to one hour of flight time on a single battery charge.
With an expansive modular payload bay, and up to 10 lbs. useable payload capacity, VAPOR is multi-mission capable, with access to a variety of available integrated sensors and third party payloads including EO/IR, survey
grade PPK mapping, LiDAR and hyperspectral sensors, and Drop/Delivery Mechanism. Every VAPOR Helicopter UAS incorporates proprietary HeliSynth™ technology for system level optimization including advanced autopilot,
payload control & operation, and mission performance efficiency.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the Vapor 55 American All-Electric Helicopter UAS:
The Vapor 35 is INA.

Here is System information for the Vapor 55 American All-Electric Helicopter UAS:
The Alternate Designation is Vapor 55.
The Type is Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS).
The Manufacturer is AeroVironment.
The Payload Capacity is 10 lbs (4.5 kg).
The Payload Options is EO/IR, LiDAR, Hyperspectral, PPK Mapping, Drop Mechanism.
The Data Links is 900 MHz, 2.4 GHz, 5.8 GHz, Satellite.

Here is Dimensions information for the Vapor 55 American All-Electric Helicopter UAS:
The Aircraft Length is 1,941 mm.
The Aircraft Width is 672 mm.
The Aircraft Height is 583 mm.
The Rotor Diameter is 2,291 mm.
The Gross Weight is 24.9 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Vapor 55 American All-Electric Helicopter UAS:
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is INA.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Range is 56 km.
The Operating Altitude is INA.
The Max Cruise Endurance is 60 minutes with full payload.
The Max Hover Endurance is 45 minutes with full payload.
The Max Wind Peak is 20 kts (23 MPH); Gusts 40 kts (45 MPH).
The Operating Altitude is 0-12,000 MSL.

