This document describes the TMM Russian Truck-Mounted Scissors Bridge.

The TMM is a Cold War era vehicle launched bridge of Soviet origin. It was developed to allow Soviet forces to traverse small gaps and water and gaps that are wider than a single bridge but do not require a pontoon. The name TMM stands for Tyazhelo Mekhniznrovanny Most , which is Russian for heavy mechanized bridge. The TMM remains in use, but has been replaced in production by the larger and more capable TMM-6.

The TMM is a bridge system that is based on the KrAZ-214 6x6 7t truck. The improved TMM-3 uses the later KrAZ-255B 7.5t truck chassis and launches the same bridge. A 10.5 m folded scissor bridge is carried at the rear of a vehicle. The bridge is launched rearwards using a pivoting metal frame and a series of steel wire and winches connected to the engine. The bridge rests on the river floor by means of two variable length struts.

A single bridge section has a length of 10.5 meters and an infinite number can be connected. Normally four TMM vehicles form a unit and together are able span a 40 meter gap. The bridge sections can be laid in gaps and water between 1.7 and 3.2 meters deep. The bridge has a 50 t weight capacity and the roadway allows for vehicles ranging from small cars to tanks. The TMM-4 variant uses a 60 t weight capacity bridge.


The TMM was produced in large quantities and was acquired by the USSR, most Warsaw Pact nations and many nations receiving Soviet aid. Despite its age the TMM remains in service although it is no longer produced.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is Variants information for the TMM Russian Truck-Mounted Scissors Bridge:
The TMM-1 is 50 ton scissor bridge on ZIL-157 chassis. Also known as TMM without suffix..
The TMM-2 is 50 ton scissor bridge on KrAZ-214 chassis. Also known as TMM without suffix..
The TMM-3 is 50 ton scissor bridge on KrAZ-255B chassis. Can be identified by steel frame with spare wheel above cab..
The TMM-4 is 60 ton scissor bridge with stronger jacks on KrAZ-255B or KrAZ-260 chassis. In KrAZ-260 version spare wheel is located behind cab..
The TMM-6 is The TMM-6 is a vehicle launched bridge system of Russian origin. It was developed in the 1990's to replace older bridge launching systems with a more capable bridge system. The name TMM-6 stands for Tyazhelo Mekhniznrovanny Most 6, which is Russian for heavy mechanized bridge 6. It is also known as the Gusenitsa-2 with the Gusenitsa-1 being the MTU-90 bridgelayer based on the T-90 chassis..

Here is Dimensions information for the TMM Russian Truck-Mounted Scissors Bridge of the System:
The Height, Overall  is 3.15.
The Length, Overall  is 9.3.
The Width, Overall  is 3.2.
The Weight, Combat is 19.

Here is Automotive information for the TMM Russian Truck-Mounted Scissors Bridge:
The Engine Name is YaMZ M206B.
The Engine Type is V6 Diesel.
The Engine Power  is 205 hp at 2.000 rpm.
The Range, Cruising  is INA.
The Maximum Range is 530.
The Speed, Maximum Road  is 55.
The Speed, Maximum Off-Road is INA.
The Speed, Maximum Swim  is INA.
The Vertical Step  is INA.
The Fording Depth  is 1.0.
The Fuel Capacity is 450 liters.

Here is Bridge System information for the TMM Russian Truck-Mounted Scissors Bridge:
The Type is Single scissor bridge.
The Length is 10.5.
The Weight Capacity is 50.
The Depth of Water is 1.7 and 3.2 meters deep..
The Operation is Normally four TMM vehicles form a unit and together are able span a 40 meter gap..
The Note #1 is An infinite number of bridges can be connected.
The Note #2 is The bridge has a 50 t weight capacity and the roadway allows for vehicles ranging from small cars to tanks..

Here is Protection information for the TMM Russian Truck-Mounted Scissors Bridge:
The Armor is No.
The NBC is No.
The Night Visition is No.
The Smoke Equipment is No.

