This document describes the PL-5EII Chinese Short-Range Infrared-Homing Air-to-Air Missile.

The PL-5 (霹雳-5) air-to-air missile (PL stands for Pi Li, "Thunderbolt" in Chinese, the generic designation for all PRC air-to-air missiles) is a short-range, Infrared homing missile use by Chinese fighters. It is based on AA-2 Atoll technology and resembles the AIM-9 Sidewinder. The PL-5 was designed and developed at China's Luoyang Electro-Optics Technology Development Centre (EOTDC), also known as Institute 612; its design team members included Chen Jiali (陈家礼), Dong Chunfeng, Hu Rongchao (胡荣超), Huang Bin, Zhang Ming (张明), and Zheng Zhiwei (郑志伟). It was reportedly produced at the Hanzhong Nanfeng Machine Factory (also known as the Hanzhong Air-to-Air Missile Factory) of China Aviation Industry Corporation I.

The PL-5 have been continuously upgraded by Luoyang and the latest variant, the PL-5EII added a dual band, multi-element detector as well as a laser proximity fuse similar to the PL-9. According to Chinese export/import agency CATIC, the PL5E has an all-aspect capability with the seeker having a maximum off boresight angle of ±25° before launch, and ±40° after launch.

PLAAF J-10 and J-11 fighter jets are mainly using PL-8 missile, which is more advanced comparing PL-5. However, due to greater weight and dimension of PL-8 missile, for F-7 and JH-7, PL-5 is still the preferable air-to-air missile at this stage.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Bangladesh, China, Egypt, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Myanmar, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Tanzania, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Zimbabwe.

Here is Variants information for the PL-5EII Chinese Short-Range Infrared-Homing Air-to-Air Missile:
The Pl-5 is The PL-5 (霹雳-5) air-to-air missile (PL stands for Pi Li, "Thunderbolt" in Chinese, the generic designation for all PRC air-to-air missiles) is a short-range, Infrared homing missile use by Chinese fighters. It is based on AA-2 Atoll technology and resembles the AIM-9 Sidewinder..

Here is PL-5EII Short-Range Air-to-Air Missile information for the PL-5EII Chinese Short-Range Infrared-Homing Air-to-Air Missile of the System:
The Name is PL-5EII.
The Type is Short-Range Air-to-Air Missile.
The Manufacturer is Luoyang Electro-Optics Technology Development Centre (EOTDC),
Hanzhong Nanfeng Machine Factor.
The Length is 2.893m.
The Diameter is 0.127m.
The Wingspan is 0.617m.
The Weight is 83kg.
The Warhead is 6kg blast-frag, or expanding rod (RF-fuse).
The Detonation Mechanism is Active infrared, laser proximity fuse.
The Engine is Solid-fuel rocket.
The Operational Range is 16~18km.
The Maximum Speed is Mach 2.5.
The Guidance System is Infrared homing, multi-element, dual band detector.

