This document describes the HQ-61A Chinese Surface to Air Missile.

The cumbersome HQ-61 series has been largely superceded by the HQ-7 and HQ-64 point defense SAMs.

The Chinese HQ-61 HongQi/Hungchi (Red Leader) is a surface-to-air missile (SAM) system for land-mobile and shipboard use. The shipboard RF-61, the first in Chinese service, reportedly entered service before the vehicle-mounted HQ-61.

The HQ-61 appears similar visually to the U.S. Sparrow, but is slightly longer and heavier and has a semi-active radar (SAR) homing seeker and midcourse command link guidance. The missile is a thin, pointed cylinder with cruciform steerable foreplanes at mid-body and cruciform delta tailplanes aft that are indexed 45 degrees to the foreplanes.

The missile’s SAR homing seeker tracks continuous wave (CW) illumination from a target-illuminating radar and is reported to have good electronic counter countermeasures (ECCM) capabilities. The system can handle only one missile at a time. Detonation is by a dual-fuze system (proximity and infrared).

The HQ-61 is powered by a solid-propellant rocket. The rectangular, traversable mount is topped by an elevating, twin-rail launcher that is pivoted at the rear. There is little visible difference between land-mobile and shipboard mounts.

The land-mobile version is deployed in groups of four launch vehicles (tracked or on 6 x 6-wheeled chassis). Other vehicles transport target acquisition radars (C-band Type 571), target-tracking and illumination radars, a battery command post and mobile generators.

Source: Military Periscope, June 2017

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is Variants information for the HQ-61A Chinese Surface to Air Missile:
The RF-61 Naval Variant (HQ-61B) is The naval version, the RF-61, weighs 648 lbs (320 kg), has a maximum slant range of 6.21 mi (10 km) and a maximum vertical range of 5 mi (8 km). It is said to be capable of operating in "severe sea conditions."
The naval variant was fitted to the JIANGWEI-class frigates beginning in 1992. It was located on a long deckhouse forward of the bridge and on the after deckhouse abaft the mainmast. The missile magazine was probably below the launcher. Fog Lamp** missile fire-control radars were fitted mid-way up each mast.

Reports indicated the RF-61s were being replaced on the JIANGWEI-class frigates by the HQ-11 (LY-60). A July 30, 2015, report in The Diplomat (Tokyo) indicates that the RF-61s were removed in order to convert the vessels into coast guard cutters. The JIANGWEI-class vessels were the only ones that w ere fitted with the RF-61, according to A New Direction for China's Defense Industry(2005). With their removal the system may no longer be in service..

Here is System information for the HQ-61A Chinese Surface to Air Missile:
The Alternate Designations is Red Leader 61, SD-1, RF-61, CSA-N-2, H-61, HQ-41.
The Engine is 1 x single-stage solid-propellant rocket.
The Speed is Mach 3.
The Maximum Range is 10 km.
The Minimum Range is 3 km.
The Maximum Altitude is 10,000 m.
The Minimum Altitude is 50 m.
The Warhead is High-explosive (HE) chain-type.
The Guidance is Guidance is provided by the Type 571 radar system. SAR seeker w/ECCM capability..
The Fuze is Dual proximity and IR.

Here is Dimensions information for the HQ-61A Chinese Surface to Air Missile:
The Length is 3.99 m.
The Wingspan is 1.17 m.
The Diameter is 286 mm.
The Weight is 310 kg.

