This document describes the Yugo Class North Korean Diesel-Electric Midget Submarine.

The North Korean Yugo class (NATO code name) is said by some sources to be so named because it was built to plans supplied by Yugoslavia in 1965. The Yugoslav Navy was designed to control the coast of the Adriatic with fast patrol boats, frigates, and small submarines. These submarines included three Heroj class submarines commissioned in the 1960s, no less than nine Una and Mala class midgets submarines (the same model was later sold to North Korea), and two more modern Sava class boats laid down in 1975. The Savas was 964 tons full load displacement and carried six 533mm forward torpedo tubes in a 65 meter (213 foot) long hull.

Pyongyang exported some midget submarines to Vietnam in 1997. Vietnam purchased two Yugo-class midget submarines from North Korea that are torpedo-capable but are used mostly for swimmer/diver delivery.

A Yugo-class midget submarine from North Korea was seized in late June 1998 on the territorial waters of South Korea. The North Korean Yugo-class midget submarine was found to have nine dead men, who were speculated to have preferred death instead of capture. The North Korean Yugo-class midget submarine, which sank after getting entangled in nets utilized for fishing, was believed to be performing an infiltration mission in South Korea.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Iran (Islamic Republic of), North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Viet Nam.

Here is Variants information for the Yugo Class North Korean Diesel-Electric Midget Submarine:
The Note is Names are unavailable, there are 36 units reported to have been built..

Here is System information for the Yugo Class North Korean Diesel-Electric Midget Submarine:
The Alternative Designation is Yugo Class.
The Type is Midget Submarine.
The Builder is Yukdaeso-ri shipyard.
The Crew is 2.
The Special Forces Soldiers is 7.

Here is Dimensions information for the Yugo Class North Korean Diesel-Electric Midget Submarine:
The Length is 22.0 m.
The Beam is 2.0 m.
The Draft is 1.6 m.
The Displacement, Surface is 76 tons.
The Displacement, Submerged is 90 tons.

Here is Propulsion System information for the Yugo Class North Korean Diesel-Electric Midget Submarine:
The Engine Name is 1 x MTU Diesel Electric.
The Engine Type is Diesel Electric.
The Engine Power is 160 shp.
The Primary Propeller is 1 x 7-bladed.
The Auxiliary Propeller is 1 x 5-bladed freewheeling.
The Surface Speed is 10 kts.
The Submerged Speed is 4 kts.
The Surface Range is 1,019 km at 10 kts.
The Submerged Range is 93 km at  4 kts.

Here is Torpedo Weapon Systems information for the Yugo Class North Korean Diesel-Electric Midget Submarine:
The Note is 2 x 533-mm tubes (2 torpedoes carried).

Here is Fire Control Systems information for the Yugo Class North Korean Diesel-Electric Midget Submarine:
The FCS Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is Yes.
The Battle Management System is INA.

Here is Radar Systems information for the Yugo Class North Korean Diesel-Electric Midget Submarine:
The Name is INA.
The Type is INA.
The Frequency is INA.
The Range is INA.

Here is Sonar Systems information for the Yugo Class North Korean Diesel-Electric Midget Submarine:
The Name is INA.
The Type is INA.

Here is Protection information for the Yugo Class North Korean Diesel-Electric Midget Submarine:
The Active Protection System is INA.
The Countermeasures is INA.
The NBC Water Washdown System is INA.

