This document describes the M1135 (Stryker) American NBC Reconnaissance Vehicle.

The M1135 (Stryker) is a Nuclear, Biological and Chemical (NBC) armored reconnaissance vehicle and is part of a family of eight-wheeled armored fighting vehicles derived from the Canadian LAV III. Stryker vehicles are produced by General Dynamics Land Systems for the United States Army. It has 4-wheel drive (8×4) and can be switched to all-wheel drive (8×8). A key feature is the vehicle detection system automatically integrates contamination information from detectors / sensors with input from navigation and meteorological systems and transmits digital NBC warning messages to warn follow-on forces. At least one platoon of three vehicles is provided to every US Army Stryker Brigade Combat Team (SBCT). CBRN reconnaissance missions include conduct route, zone, and area reconnaissance to determine the presence and extent of CBRN contamination using the NBC reconnaissance techniques of search, survey, surveillance, and sampling.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: CFE Treaty, United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the M1135 (Stryker) American NBC Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The M1126 ICV is Armored personnel carrier version that provides protected transport for 2 crew and a 9 man infantry squad..
The M1127 (RV) is Reconnaissance Vehicle. used by RSTA (Reconnaissance, Surveillance, and Target Acquisition) Squadrons and battalion scouts, moving throughout the battlefield to gather and transmit real-time intelligence/surveillance for situational awareness.
The M1128 (MGS) is Mobile Gun System. Version armed with a 105 mm M68A1 rifled cannon (M68A1E4).
The M1129 (MC) is Mortar Carrier. armed with Soltam 120 mm Mortar supports infantry with screening obscurants, suppressive forces and on-call supporting fires (HE, illumination, IR illumination, smoke, precision-guided, and DPICM cluster bombs)..
The M1130 (CV) is Command Vehicle, provides commanders with communication, data, and control functions to analyze and prepare information for combat missions; can also link to aircraft antenna/power for planning missions..
The M1131 (FSV) is Fire Support Vehicle is organic to maneuver companies and provides surveillance and communications (4 secure combat radio nets), with target acquisition identification tracking, the designation being transmitted automatically to the shooting units..
The M1132 (ESV) is Engineer Squad Vehicle (ESV) provides mobility and limited counter mobility support. Integrated into the ESV are obstacle neutralization and lane marking systems and mine detection devices..
The M1133 (MEV) is Medical Evacuation Vehicle (MEV) is the Battalion Aid Station for brigade units, providing treatment for serious injury and advanced trauma..
The M1134 (ATGM) is Anti-Tank Guided Missile Vehicle is armed with the TOW missile to reinforce the brigade's infantry and reconnaissance, providing long-range antitank fires against armor beyond tank gun effective range..

Here is System information for the M1135 (Stryker) American NBC Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Alternative Designation is M1135 NBC RV.
The Type is 8x8 Wheeled Armored NBC Recon Vehicle.
The Manufacturer is General Dynamic Land Systems, USA and Canada.
The Family is Stryker.
The Configuration is The Stryker is based on the LAV III light armored vehicle, which in turn was based on the LAV-25 series.

The vehicle comes in several variants with a common engine, transmission, hydraulics, wheels, tires, differentials and transfer case..
The Crew is 4 Personnel.

Here is Dimensions information for the M1135 (Stryker) American NBC Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Length is 6.95.
The Width is 2.72.
The Height is 2.64.
The Weight, Combat is 17,525.
The Ground Pressure is 2.05 kg / square centimeter.

Here is Automotive information for the M1135 (Stryker) American NBC Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Engine Name is Caterpillar C7.
The Engine Type is 7.2-liter Turbo Diesel.
The Engine Power is 350.
The Cruising Range is 500.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 100.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.
The Fording Depth is 1.3.

Here is Mission Systems information for the M1135 (Stryker) American NBC Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Chemical Biological Mass Spectrometer (CBMS) Block II is Detects and identifies ground chemical agents..
The Joint Biological Point Detection System (JBPDS) is Detects and identifies biological agents..
The Joint Service Lightweight Standoff Chemical Agent Detector (JSLSCAD) is Provides on-the-move, real time chemical agent vapor, point and standoff detection and identification..
The Chemical Vapor Sampling System (CVSS) is Captures chemical vapor samples for analysis..
The Radiological Detectors is Used to continuously monitor local environment around the vehicle and report levels of radiation to the crew. It also provides a warning if radiation levels are too high..
The NATO Standard Markers and Deployment System is At the rear of the vehicle is an automatic marker system that is used to either mark safe pathways or indicate contaminated areas..
The  is .
The  is .

Here is Heavy Machine Gun (Option 1) information for the M1135 (Stryker) American NBC Reconnaissance Vehicle of the Weapon Systems:
The Name is M2 Browning .50 Caliber Machine Gun.
The Type is Heavy Machine Gun.
The Caliber is 12.7mm.
The Quantity is 1.
The Length is 1,654 mm.
The Barrel Length is 1,143 mm.
The Action is Short, Recoil-Operated.
The Rate of Fire is 450 - 600 rds/min.
The Maximum Effective Firing Range is 1,800 m.
The Feed System is Belt-Fed.

Here is Grenade Launcher (Option 2) information for the M1135 (Stryker) American NBC Reconnaissance Vehicle of the Weapon Systems:
The Name is MK-19 Grenade Launcher.
The Type is Automatic Grenade Launcher.
The Caliber is 40 mm.
The Length is 1,090 mm.
The Barrel Length is 413 mm.
The Action is Blowback (empty without accessories).
The Rate of Fire is 360–390 rds/min (cyclic) 40 rds/min (sustained) 60 rds/min (rapid).
The Maximum Effective Firing Range is 1,500 m.
The Feed System is 32 or 48 (count) Grenade Belt.

Here is Machine Gun (Option 3) information for the M1135 (Stryker) American NBC Reconnaissance Vehicle of the Weapon Systems:
The Name is M240.
The Type is General-Purpose Machine Gun.
The Caliber is 7.62 mm.
The Length is 1,260 mm.
The Barrel Length is 630 mm.
The Action is Open-Bolt Fired, Gas-Operated, Long-Stroke Piston.
The Rate of Fire is 650-750 rds/min.
The Maximum Effective Range is 1,100 m.
The Feed System is Belt-Fed.

Here is Fire Control information for the M1135 (Stryker) American NBC Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Name is M151 Kongsberg Protector.
The Type is Remote Weapons Station.
The Mounting System is Universal Soft-Mount Cradle.
The Sights / Aiming System is Detached Line of Sight (DLOS) enables the gunner to keep sights on target independent of ballistic solution for the weapon option in use..
The Turret Stabilization is Fully stabilized and provides steady observation and engagement capability..
The Thermals is Yes.
The Camera is Color Daylight System.
The Laser Range Finder is Yes.

Here is Protection information for the M1135 (Stryker) American NBC Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Hull Armor is Constructed from high-hardness steel which offers a basic level of protection against 14.5mm rounds on the frontal arc, and all-around protection against 7.62mm ball ammunition..
The Applique Armor is Equipped with bolt-on ceramic armor which offers all-around protection against 14.5mm, armor-piercing ammunition, and artillery fragments from 152mm rounds..
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is Yes.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is INA.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is Yes.

Here is Command & Control information for the M1135 (Stryker) American NBC Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Battle Management System is FBCB2 (Force XXI battle command brigade and below).
The Digital is Yes, Utilizes digital communications system that allows comms between vehicles and higher headquarters through text messaging and a map network..

