This document describes the FN MAG 58 Belgian 7.62mm General-Purpose Machine Gun.

The FN MAG 58 is a Belgian 7.62×51 mm NATO general-purpose machine gun manufactured by Fabrique Nationale (FN) by Ernest Vervier in the early 1950s and put into service in 1958.  The firearm’s name is an abbreviation for Mitrailleuse d’Appui Général, meaning “general-purpose machine gun”. The MAG is available in three primary versions: the standard, infantry Model 60-20 machine gun, the Model 60-40 coaxial machine gun for armored fighting vehicles, and the Model 60-30 aircraft variant.  The FN MAG 58 was used extensively by the IDF and is now gradually being phased out due to the increased use of the IWI Negev in 5.56×45 and 7.62×51 calibers.

It can be used either as a Light Support Weapon (LSW) fired from the bipod, or fired from a tripod in the extended range role. It can also be mounted on a tripod with a C2 sight and used in the sustained fire role. It is a fully automatic, belt-fed, air-cooled, gas-operated weapon, firing from the open bolt position, and is capable of a sustained high volume of fire. Stoppages can be easily and quickly remedied. The barrel is chromed internally to reduce wear.

The ammunition belt is made up of disintegrating links; factory filled and packed in 500-round containers. The belts are normally fitted in the ratio of four ball rounds to one tracer round mix, although all-ball round belts are available. The maximum effective range of the GSMG MAG 58 in the LSW role is 800 meters.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Estonia, Finland, France, Gabon, Georgia, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Jamaica, Jordan, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libya, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mexico, Monaco, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sweden, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Here is System information for the FN MAG 58 Belgian 7.62mm General-Purpose Machine Gun:
The Alternate Designation is FN MAG 58.
The Manufacturer is Fabrique Nationale (FNH / FNH UK) and
U.S. Ordnance.
The In Service is ?-Present.
The Caliber is 7.62 mm.
The Feed is Belt Feed.
The Effective Range is 800 m.
The Cyclic Rate of Fire is 750-1,000 Rounds per minute.

Here is Dimensions information for the FN MAG 58 Belgian 7.62mm General-Purpose Machine Gun:
The Length is 1,231 mm.
The Barrel Length is 679 mm.
The Weight is 10.9 kg.

Here is Ammunition information for the FN MAG 58 Belgian 7.62mm General-Purpose Machine Gun:
The Type is Rifle.
The Caliber is 7.72 mm.
The Cartridge is 7.62×51mm NATO.

