This document describes the ENVG III/FWS-I American Night Vision Mobility and Targeting System.

Enhanced Night Vision Goggle III/Family of Weapon Sight-Individual ENVG III/FWS-I.

In today’s battlefield environment, it is critical for soldiers to be able to quickly locate and identify targets, especially during nighttime operations or when visibility is compromised. Currently soldiers use two different devices – night vision goggles for situational awareness and the thermal weapon sight for aiming, which impacts how quickly the soldier can acquire and engage the target. BAE Systems’ ENVG III/FWS-I provides dismounted soldiers with an integrated thermal targeting system to illuminate the night. ENVG III/FWS-I eliminates the need to switch between night vision goggles and weapon mounted thermal sights when acquiring or engaging threats, improving soldier safety and mission effectiveness.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: United States of America.

Here is System information for the ENVG III/FWS-I American Night Vision Mobility and Targeting System:
The Alternative Designation is ENVG III/FWS-I.
The Type is Enhanced Night Vision Goggle III/
Family of Weapon Sight-Individual.
The Crew is 1.
The Rapid Target Acquisition (RTA) Technology is Quickly
locate and engage targets from any location without raising the
weapon to the eye, keeping soldiers both safe and more lethal.
The 12-micron Technology is Provides the sharpest image quality
in a smaller and lighter package, allowing soldiers to identify and
engage targets day or night, and in smoke, dust, haze, or fog.
The Intuitive Design is Easily switch between modes of use with
a touch of a button, improving situational awareness, and
soldier confidence..
The Modes is Image overlay, picture in picture and scope only view options tailored to meet the multi-environmental
conditions today’s soldier encounters.
The Transmission is Enables multiple units
to work in close proximity without interference and jamming.
The Battery Life is Extends mission time without
adding to pack load..

Here is Dimensions information for the ENVG III/FWS-I American Night Vision Mobility and Targeting System:
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Weight, Combat is INA.

