This document describes the DF-3 (Dongfeng 3) Chinese Intermediate-Range Ballistic Missile.

Designed to be China’s first modern missile, the Dongfeng 3 (DF-3/CSS-2) Chinese Intermediate-Range Ballistic Missile (IRBM) has a range of up to 3,100 km and was deemed operational in 1971.  The silo-based, single-stage, MRBM uses liquid propellant and an inertial guidance system.  The DF-3, and its improved variant the DF-3A, have largely been replaced by the DF-21 and only a minimal number of DF-3 missiles are suspected to exist today.  Many outmoded DF-3 missiles have been outsourced to Saudi Arabia.

The DF-3A is an upgraded variant of the DF-3 that became operational in August 1988.  Like the DF-3, the DF-3A lacks significant road-mobile capabilities however it is deployed using a towed launcher. The improved missile possesses a range of up to 4,000 km and a more accurate guidance system than the DF-3.  Both missiles share the same propellants, diameter, and burn time, however, the DF-3A has an improved version of the YF-2 engine.

The DF-3 and the DF-3A proved that China possesses the technological capacity to produce MRBMs and granted China the chance to expand their A2/AD range. This also paved the way for many of China’s advances in ballistic missiles such as the D-21 and its several variants.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China, Hong Kong, Saudi Arabia.

Here is Variants information for the DF-3 (Dongfeng 3) Chinese Intermediate-Range Ballistic Missile:
The DF-3A is The DF-3A is an upgraded variant of the DF-3 that became operational in August 1988.  Like the DF-3, the DF-3A lacks significant road-mobile capabilities however it is deployed using a towed launcher.  The improved missile possesses a range of up to 4,000km and a more accurate guidance system than the DF-3.  Both missiles share the same propellants, diameter, and burn time, however, the DF-3A has an improved version of the YF-2 engine..

Here is Dimensions information for the DF-3 (Dongfeng 3) Chinese Intermediate-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Length is 24.0.
The Diameter is 2.25.
The Fin Span is INA.
The Missile Weight is 64,000.

Here is Payload information for the DF-3 (Dongfeng 3) Chinese Intermediate-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Warhead Type is Up to 3.
The Warhead Options is HE, Nuclear, or 3 separating reentry vehicles (RVs).
The Nuclear Yield is A minimum of 50 kT per warhead, up to 3 (some estimates are up to 700kT).
The Conventional Warhead Weight is 2,000.
The Conventional Warheads Available is HE.
The Multiple Independently targetable Reentry Vehicle (MIRV) Capable is No.
The Chemical Capable is INA.

Here is Propulsion Characteristics information for the DF-3 (Dongfeng 3) Chinese Intermediate-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Engine is Single (YF-2A).
The Propellant is Liquid (UDMH / AK-27S).
The Speed is INA.

