This document describes the RP-377L (Lorandit) Russian Compact Multifunctional Radio Monitoring, Direction-Finding and Jamming Complex.

The RP-377L (LORANDIT) Compact Multifunctional Radio monitoring, Direction-Finding and
Jamming Complex provides for the search of, position location, and jamming of VHF/UHF
radio electronic communications. The RP-377L complex can be vehicle mounted or placed
in two cases and four canvas bags, and be carried by 2-3 persons. Depending on mission
requirements, multiple complexes can work together, with one complex configured as a
command post.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is System information for the RP-377L (Lorandit) Russian Compact Multifunctional Radio Monitoring, Direction-Finding and Jamming Complex:
The Alternative Designation is RP-377L (LORANDIT).
The Type is Compact Multifunctional Radiomonitoring, Direction-Finding And
Jamming Complex.
The Chassis is The RP-377L complex can be vehicle mounted or placed
in two cases and four canvas bags, and be carried by 2-3 persons..
The Crew is 2-3.
The Displacement is Less than 15 min.
The Emplacement is Less than 15 min.

Here is Dimensions information for the RP-377L (Lorandit) Russian Compact Multifunctional Radio Monitoring, Direction-Finding and Jamming Complex:
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Weight, Combat is INA.
The Note is The RP-377L complex can be vehicle mounted or placed
in two cases and four canvas bags, and be carried by 2-3 persons..

Here is Electronic Warfare System information for the RP-377L (Lorandit) Russian Compact Multifunctional Radio Monitoring, Direction-Finding and Jamming Complex:
The Frequency Range, Search and Detection is 20-2000 MHz.
The Frequency Range, Direction and Finding is 25-2000 MHz.
The RMS Direction-Finding Error is not more than 3 degrees.
The Instant Monitoring Bandwidth is 180-1200 kHz.
The Types of Searching Signals is FM, AM, SSB, FSK, PSK.
The Transmitter Output is greater than 100 W.

Here is Automotive information for the RP-377L (Lorandit) Russian Compact Multifunctional Radio Monitoring, Direction-Finding and Jamming Complex:
The Note is The RP-377L can be vehicle mounted or carried by 2-3 people..

