This document describes the HMEE British 4x4 Backhoe Loader.

The JCB HMEE (High Mobility Engineer Excavator) is a military vehicle made by JCB.

The HMEE is an armoured backhoe loader designed for high speeds in order to self-deploy with military convoys. Most backhoes are limited to much lower speeds.[2] It is also capable of towing heavy loads and has good off-road mobility. It is based on technology from the JCB Fastrac tractors.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Australia, Ireland, Israel, New Zealand, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Here is System information for the HMEE British 4x4 Backhoe Loader:
The Alternative Designation is HMEE.
The Type is Backhoe Loader.
The Manufacturer is JCB.
The Mission is The HMEE is used for a wide range of mobility, counter-mobility, survivability and general engineering missions. It can perform excavation tasks and then quickly self-deploy to the next mission site..
The Crew is 2.
The Attachments is The HMEE has a wide array of attachments. These include a range of shovels, wide range of excavator buckets, excavator mounted hydraulic hammer, fork frame, sand bagger, snow plough and other attachments. It is capable of lifting more than 2 t and can dig to a depth of nearly 4 m..
The Note is The JCB HMEE is a unique high-mobility excavation system. It can self-deploy and support fast moving forces on long range operations without the need of a trailer..

Here is Dimensions information for the HMEE British 4x4 Backhoe Loader:
The Length is 8.54 m.
The Width is 2.49 m.
The Height is 3.48 m.
The Weight is 11.99 tons.

Here is Automotive information for the HMEE British 4x4 Backhoe Loader:
The Engine Name is Cummins ISB 02.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 185 hp.
The Transmission is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 100 km/h.
The Range is 600 km.
The Gradient is 60.
The Side Slope is 30.
The Vertical Step is 0.62 m.
The Trench is 0.6 m.
The Fording with deep Fording Kit is 0.76 m.

Here is Protection information for the HMEE British 4x4 Backhoe Loader:
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is This military construction vehicle can be fitted with an armored cab, which provides protection against small arms fire, artillery shell splinters, landmines and IEDs..
The Mine Clearing is No.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

