This document describes the Type GJW410 Chinese Wheeled Ditch and Trench Digging Machine.

The Type GJW410 Chinese Wheeled Ditch and Trench Digging Machine is mainly used in the coastal plains, dig ditches, municipal cables, along the pipe laying excavation work, and the construction of irrigation and water conservancy, and mining area of oil and gas pipelines. As the excavation work, dig a hole, digging ditches (pit), and other functions of soil homework, pottery with a rotating impeller, direction, distance is adjustable. And you can choose different tools, and complete the different mining depths and thicknesses.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China, Russian Federation.

Here is System information for the Type GJW410 Chinese Wheeled Ditch and Trench Digging Machine:
The Alternative Designation is Type GJW410.
The Type is Wheeled Ditch and Trench Digging Machine.
The Manufacturer is Norinco.
The Crew is 2.
The Chassis is The Type GJW410 wheeled ditch and trench digging machine is based on the chassis of a wheeled loader to which a front-mounted dozer blade and rear-mounted trenching equipment are fitted..

Here is Trench-Digging Equipment information for the Type GJW410 Chinese Wheeled Ditch and Trench Digging Machine:
The DIgging Assembly is The main digging assembly is located to the rear of the vehicle and consists of a roller chain with digging buckets driven mechanically from the main engine..
The Operating Rate is For ditch-digging, the maximum operating rate is 141 m³/h in Class II soil for a ditch of 3.5 m width and 3 m depth, this is achieved by three excavating passes..
The Frozen Soil Capable is Yes.
The Soft Soil Maximum Trench-Digging Speed is 180 m per hour.
The Maximum Digging Depth is 1.2 m and the width of the trench can vary from 650 at the bottom to 900 mm at the top..
The Dozer Blade is A Hydraulically operated dozer blade fitted to the front of the machine is used to clear brush, scrub, and general debris to prepare the ground for trench digging, but may also be used for earthmoving, grading, and general dozing operations..

Here is Dimensions information for the Type GJW410 Chinese Wheeled Ditch and Trench Digging Machine:
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Weight is 16,500 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Type GJW410 Chinese Wheeled Ditch and Trench Digging Machine:
The Engine Name is Cummins 6CT8.3-C215.
The Engine Type is 8.3-litre six-cylinder water-cooled diesel.
The Engine Power is 217 hp (162 kW) at 2,200 rpm and 872 Nm torque at 1,500 rpm.
The Transmission is ZF 6WG181 transmission.
The Maximum Speed is 60 km/h.
The Range is INA.
The Tires is 20.5–25 with an industrial/earthmoving tread pattern.

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Type GJW410 Chinese Wheeled Ditch and Trench Digging Machine:
The Note is There are no crew-served weapons mounted on the Type GJW410 Chinese Wheeled Ditch and Trench Digging Machine.

Here is Protection information for the Type GJW410 Chinese Wheeled Ditch and Trench Digging Machine:
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is INA.
The Mine Clearing is INA.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is No.

