This document describes the PL-5 Chinese Air-to-Air Missile.

The PL-5 (霹雳-5) air-to-air missile (PL stands for Pi Li, "Thunderbolt" in Chinese, the generic designation for all PRC air-to-air missiles) is a short-range, Infrared homing missile used by Chinese fighters. It is based on AA-2 Atoll technology and resembles the AIM-9 Sidewinder. The PL-5 was designed and developed at China's Luoyang Electro-Optics Technology Development Centre (EOTDC), also known as Institute 612; its design team members included Chen Jiali (陈家礼), Dong Chunfeng, Hu Rongchao (胡荣超), Huang Bin, Zhang Ming (张明), and Zheng Zhiwei (郑志伟). It was reportedly produced at the Hanzhong Nanfeng Machine Factory (also known as the Hanzhong Air-to-Air Missile Factory) of China Aviation Industry Corporation I.

The PL-5 has been continuously upgraded by Luoyang and the latest variant, the PL-5EII added a dual-band, multi-element detector as well as a laser proximity fuse similar to the PL-9. According to the Chinese export/import agency CATIC, the PL5E has an all-aspect capability with the seeker having a maximum off-boresight angle of ±25° before launch, and ±40° after launch.

PLAAF J-10 and J-11 fighter jets are mainly using the PL-8 missiles, which is more advanced comparing PL-5. However, due to the greater weight and dimension of the PL-8 missile, for F-7 and JH-7, PL-5 is still the preferable air-to-air missile at this stage.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Bangladesh, China, Egypt, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Myanmar, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Zimbabwe.

Here is PL-5 Air-to-Air Missile information for the PL-5 Chinese Air-to-Air Missile of the System:
The Name is PL-5.
The Type is Air-to-Air Missile.
The Manufacturer is Luoyang Electro-Optics Technology Development Centre (EOTDC),
Hanzhong Nanfeng Machine Factory.
The Length is 3.128 m.
The Diameter is 0.127m.
The Wingspan is 0.657m.
The Weight is 148 kg.
The Warhead is 6kg blast-frag, or expanding rod (RF-fuse).
The Detonation Mechanism is Active infrared, laser proximity fuse(PL-5EII).
The Engine is Solid-fuel rocket.
The Operational Range is 1.3–16km.
The Maximum Speed is Mach 2.5.
The Guidance System is Infrared homing, multi-element, dual band detector(PL-5EII).

