This document describes the Light Strike Vehicle Singapore 4x4 Light Utility Vehicle.

The Light Strike Vehicle (LSV) is a light fast attack vehicle used by the Singapore Army. In 2013, the Singapore designed and made Light Strike Vehicle Mark II (LSV MK.II) entered service to replace the ageing Singapore and Australian made Light Strike Vehicle in service since 1998.

The Light Strike Vehicle (LSV) was a US designed vehicle named the Flyer designated R-12D produced in Australia and later in Singapore.

The Flyer R-12 high-speed mobility vehicle was originally designed by HSMV Corporation, subsequently purchased by the Flyer Group (now Flyer Defense, a Division of Marvin Group). The Flyer was based on the chassis of the R-1 Rescue All Terrain Transport (RATT). The vehicle is powered by a rear-mounted, 2-litre, 110HP water-cooled turbocharged diesel coupled to a three-speed semi-automatic transmission. The chassis is constructed of welded chrome-moly seamless tubing and a long travel progressive suspension.

In 1995, the Flyer R-12D Light Strike Vehicle was a proposal for the cancelled Australian Army project “Mulgara” by Australian Defence Industries (ADI)/ Raceco-HSMV (US).

Later, Flyer Defense LLC designed an upgraded Flyer designated the R-12D Flyer 1 which was produced in the US for the Greek Army special forces in left hand drive.

A second generation Flyer designated the Flyer 21 was developed by Flyer Defense LLC (also referred to as the Flyer Internally Transportable Vehicle (ITV-1)). The ITV-1 did not enter full production.

In 2003, ST Kinetics provided the United Arab Emirates (UAE) with prototype Flyers for a potential contract of between 60 and 90 light strike vehicles.

At the Eurosatory 2004 in Paris, the Israeli company Rafael Armament Development Authority unveiled the Mantis high-mobility attack vehicle prototype based on the US produced Flyer ITV-1. The Mantis did not enter full production, however, several prototype Mantis Flyers were successfully deployed in counter smuggling operations along the Israel-Egypt border and tested by special forces.

In 2004, the Malaysia government military company DEFTECH formed a partnership with Flyer Defense LLC to market the Flyer Advance Light Strike Vehicle (ALSV) GEN II (variant ITV-1) in the region, after ST Kinetics had commenced developing their own vehicle, the partnership continues today.

In 2008, the Indian government military company Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) produced a Flyer ITV-1 prototype with Flyer Defense LLC for the Indian Army Light Support Vehicle (LSV) contract. The vehicle did not enter production.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Greece, Indonesia, Israel, Singapore, United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the Light Strike Vehicle Singapore 4x4 Light Utility Vehicle:
The SRAMS is 120-mm Super Rapid Advanced Mortar System (SRAMS) with an auto-loader & 6 rounds on vehicle.
The Ammo Carrier is Accompanies the SRAMS with additional crew member.
The Spider with Spike ATGM is Anti-tank weapons carrier.
The Light Strike Vehicle Mark II is The primary role of the LSV MK. II is against armoured threats. It is designed to be helicopter portable and manoeuvrable over cross-country terrain. The vehicle is equipped with enhanced networking capabilities to support the integration with other combat systems during operations..

Here is System information for the Light Strike Vehicle Singapore 4x4 Light Utility Vehicle:
The Alternative Designations is The Light Strike Vehicle (LSV) was a US designed vehicle named the Flyer designated R-12D produced in Australia and later in Singapore..
The Description is 4 X 4 dune buggy type vehicle with rollover frame can hold up to 6 passengers in addition to the crew..
The Manufacturer is Singapore Technologies Kinetics Ltd (ST Kinetics)
Australian Defence Industries.
The Crew is 3.
The Passengers is 6.

Here is Dimensions information for the Light Strike Vehicle Singapore 4x4 Light Utility Vehicle:
The Length is 4,250 mm.
The Width is 2,110 mm.
The Height is Top of roll cage: 1,900 mm.
The Curb Weight is 1,500 kg.
The Payload Capacity is 1,000.

Here is Automotive information for the Light Strike Vehicle Singapore 4x4 Light Utility Vehicle:
The Engine Name is Peugeot.
The Engine Type is 2 litre turbocharged intercooled diesel.
The Engine Power is 104.
The Operational Range is 350.
The Speed (Max Road) is 110.
The Speed (Max Off-Road) is 80.
The Speed (Average cross-country) is INA.
The Speed (Max Swim) is N/A.
The Fording Depths is 0.60.
The Transmission is semi-automatic transaxle, 3 forward and 1 reverse gears.
The Suspension is Independent all-round.

Here is System information for the Light Strike Vehicle Singapore 4x4 Light Utility Vehicle of the Main Weapon System:
The Name is STK 40 AGL.
The Type is 40 mm automatic grenade launcher.
The In Service is 1991-Present.
The Manufacturer is Chartered Industries of Singapore
(now ST Kinetics).
The Proliferation is Bangladesh
 
Cyprus: Cypriot Army announced purchase of CIS 40 AGLs in 2007.

 Indonesia: Made under license by PT Pindad for the Indonesian military as Pindad SPG-3 in 1994.
 
Georgia: Used on Nurol Ejder and Otokar Cobra AFVs
 
Papua New Guinea: Used by the Royal Papua New Guinea Constabulary.
 
Philippines: Philippine Army, Philippine Marine Corps

 Singapore: Used as a main armament on the Bionix 40/50 IFVs..
The Length is 966 mm.
The Barrel Length is 350 mm.
The Width is 376 mm.
The Weight is 33.
The Action is Blowback operation.
The Rate of Fire is 350-500 rounds/min.
The Muzzle Velocity is 242.
The Maximum Firing Range is 2,200.
The Feed System is Linked belt.
The Sights is Folding leaf sight.

Here is Ammunition information for the Light Strike Vehicle Singapore 4x4 Light Utility Vehicle of the Main Weapon System:
The Type is Grenade.
The Caliber is 40mm.
The Cartridge is 40x53mm grenade.

Here is Secondary Weapon System information for the Light Strike Vehicle Singapore 4x4 Light Utility Vehicle:
The Note is 1–2× FN MAG General-Purpose Machine Guns.

Here is Protection information for the Light Strike Vehicle Singapore 4x4 Light Utility Vehicle:
The Armor (turret front) is None, relies on speed.
The Applique Armor is No.
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is No.
The Self-entrenching Blade is No.
The NBC Protection System is No.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.
The Survivability Equipment is Off-road mobility, speed, 360°crew fire, & quick dismount for protection.

