This document describes the VX: Nerve Agent.

VX is an extremely toxic synthetic chemical compound in the organophosphorus class, specifically, a thiophosphonate. In the class of nerve agents, it was developed for military use in chemical warfare after translation of earlier discoveries of organophosphate toxicity in pesticide research. In its pure form, VX is an oily, relatively non-volatile, liquid that is amber-like in color] Because of its low volatility, VX persists in environments where it is dispersed.

VX, short for "venomous agent X".]is one of the best known of the V nerve agents and was first discovered at Porton Down in England during the early 1950s based on research first done by Gerhard Schrader, a chemist working for IG Farben in Germany during the 1930s. Now one of a broader V-series of agents, they are classified as nerve agents and have been used as a chemical weapon in various recorded deadly attacks. VX fatalities occur with exposure to tens of milligram quantities via inhalation or absorption through skin; VX is thus more potent than sarin, another nerve agent with a similar mechanism of action. On such exposure, these agents severely disrupt the body's signaling between the nervous and muscular systems, leading to a prolonged neuromuscular blockade, flaccid paralysis of all the muscles in the body including the diaphragm, and death by asphyxiation.

The danger of VX, in particular, lies in direct exposure to the chemical agent persisting where it was dispersed, and not through its evaporating and being distributed as a vapor (i.e. it is not a "vapor hazard"). VX is considered an area denial weapon due to these physical and biochemical characteristics. As a chemical weapon, it is categorized as a weapon of mass destruction and is banned by the Chemical Weapons Convention of 1993, where production and stockpiling of VX exceeding 100 grams (3.53 oz) per year is outlawed. The only exception is for "research, medical or pharmaceutical purposes outside a single small-scale facility in aggregate quantities not exceeding 10 kg (22 lb) per year per facility".

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Cuba, Iraq, North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Russian Federation, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Here is System information for the VX: Nerve Agent:
The Alternative Designations is Methylphosphonothioic acid, O-ethyl S-(2-diisopropylaminoethyl) methylphosphonothiolate.
The Military designation is .
The Chemical abstracts service number is 50782-69-9.
The UN Number is 2810.
The Chemical Formula is C11H26NO2PS.
The Appearance is .
The Color is Clear, Amber.
The Description type agent is Nerve.
The Description is One of the most toxic tasteless and odorless human-made chemical warfare agents.
The Lethality is Yes.
The Nonpersistent is No.
The Flammability* is 1.
The Health* is 4.
The Instability/reactivity* is 0.
The Flashpoint° (F) is 318.2.
The Boiling Point ° (F) is 568.4.

Here is Routes of Exposure information for the VX: Nerve Agent:
The Inhalation is Yes.
The Ingestion is Yes.
The Skin/eye is Yes.

Here is Methods of Dissemination information for the VX: Nerve Agent:
The Indoor air is Yes.
The Water is Yes.
The Outdoor air is Yes.
The Agricultural is Possible.
The Historic usage* is .

