This document describes the Akatsiya-M ASU Russian Automated Command and Control System.

The system provides the army commander and his staff with online information about the combat situation, including the status of our own troops and actions by the enemy. Based on these data, the commander will be able to give orders directly via Akatsiya to subordinate troops. According to experts, the new system will significantly outpace an enemy in decision-making and implementation on the battlefield.

The Akatsiya-M technically consists of staff cars with special equipment based on KamAZ all-terrain four-axle trucks. This provides the system with high mobility. It can be deployed in minutes in any direction. Manufacture of the Akatsiya-M will begin this year and will go on until 2019. The Akatsiya-M will be in each combined-arms army and army corps. In total, more than 21 billion rubles have already been allocated for the creation of the system…The Akatsiya system was already deployed in the field in 2011. 

It supports the daily life of the military in peacetime. For example, through this system, the rear services keep records of stocks and the issuance of food, fuel and lubricants, and clothing. But the Akatsiya-M is a combat system. It is designed for combat, peacekeeping and special operations. The automated command and
control system uses closed radio and satellite communication channels to create a single information field that ensures continuous exchange of information between command posts and headquarters. The automated command and control system also has integrated reconnaissance devices, including satellites and UAVs.

The Akatsiya-M continuously receives and analyzes data on the ongoing situation in real time: information on enemy actions and the aerial,ground, interference, radiation, chemical, and bacteriological environment. Also, data is disseminated on the combat readiness of our own troops’ equipment, the availability of ammunition, fuel and lubricants, and even information about the moral and psychological state of personnel…The processed data is displayed in real time on an electronic chart. In that way, the commander can assess the situation in real time
and make a decision in a few minutes. If there is a need, the commander can even give orders to a detachment of soldiers. 

The Akatsiya-M interacts with automated command and control systems of other military arms and branches. Thanks to this, the commander and army headquarters will be able to easily manage groups of troops which include Navy units and formations, Aerospace Forces, and Airborne Troops. The Akatsiya-M also exchanges information with the National Defense Control Center in real time. 



Automated Command and Control System (ASU) ACUs are seen as essential elements of reconnaissance-strike loops, as they facilitate rapid reconnaissance, planning, and most importantly, action.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is System information for the Akatsiya-M ASU Russian Automated Command and Control System:
The Alternative Designation is Akatsiya-M.
The Type is Automated Command and Control System (ASU).
The Manufacturer is INA.
The In Service is Yes.
The Fielded is fielded in
Russia’s operational-level Ground Forces’ commands (12 Combined Arms Armies and 4 Army Corps).
The Capabilities is The system will not only provide C2
and situational awareness for the operational commander regarding his own directly subordinate units, but will also allow for liaising with, or
command and control of, attached subordinate units of the Navy, Aerospace Forces, and Airborne Troops. In addition, the Akatsiya-M will be
integrated with the Russian National Defense Control Center..
The Note is There is very little unclassified information about the Akatsiya-M.

Here is Dimensions information for the Akatsiya-M ASU Russian Automated Command and Control System:
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Weight, Combat is INA.

