This document describes the ISDM Zemledeliye Russian 8x8 Mine-Laying System.

The ISDM Zemledeliye Russian 8x8 Mine-Laying System is a remote-mining engineering system that was unveiled in June 2020 during the Victory Parade. The vehicle is based on a KamAZ 6560 8x8 military truck chassis with a mine launching system mounted at the rear. The system has been developed by Ganichev NPO Splav.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is System information for the ISDM Zemledeliye Russian 8x8 Mine-Laying System:
The Alternative Designation is ISDM Zemledeliye.
The Type is Mine-Laying System.
The Manufacturer is Ganichev NPO Splav.
The Configuration is 8x8.
The Chassis is KamAZ-6560.
The Cab Seating is 1+2 in cab.
The Reloading System is The reloading system includes a transport-loading unit, also based on an 8x8 KamAZ chassis..

Here is Dimensions information for the ISDM Zemledeliye Russian 8x8 Mine-Laying System:
The Length is 10.3 m.
The Width is 2.5 m.
The Height is 3.27 m.
The Wheelbase is 3.6 m.
The Weight, Curb is 14.85 tons.

Here is Automotive information for the ISDM Zemledeliye Russian 8x8 Mine-Laying System:
The Engine Name is YaMZ-5367.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 400 hp.
The Maximum Range is 1,000 km.
The Maximum Speed is 90 km/h.
The Amphibious is No.
The Gradient is 60%.
The Side Slope is 40%.
The Vertical Step is 0.6 m.
The Trench is 2.0 m.
The Fording is 1.8 m.

Here is Mine-Laying System information for the ISDM Zemledeliye Russian 8x8 Mine-Laying System:
The System is The ISDM fires solid-fuel rockets carrying various types of land mines. The system marks areas with mines on an electronic map and transmits data to higher levels of the command chain. Remote mine-laying has a number of advantages as it features an increased speed of mine laying in complex environments. the ISDM combat vehicle is fitted 50-barrel multiple launch rocket system consisting of two blocks with five rows of tube launchers. Each tube can fire one 122-mm rocket equipped with mines of various types. All the firing operations are controlled from inside of the crew cabin using a computerized automatic launching system. The system is supposed to be a mine dispenser working like air-dropped cluster bombs..
The Mines is POM-3, also known as “Medallion,” that is equipped with a seismic sensor to detect an approaching person and eject an explosive charge into the air. The subsequent detonation of the charge and metal fragments it projects can cause death and injury within a 16-meter radius, according to the limited information available publicly on this landmine.

The POM-3 is reportedly equipped with a self-destruct device that destroys the mine after a certain amount of time, such as hours or days after deployment..
The Firing Range is 5-15 km.

Here is Protection information for the ISDM Zemledeliye Russian 8x8 Mine-Laying System:
The Armor is None.
The NBC is INA.

