This document describes the Yak-18 (Max) Russian Trainer Aircraft.

The Yakovlev Yak-18 (NATO reporting name Max) is a tandem two-seat military primary trainer aircraft manufactured in the Soviet Union. Originally powered by one 119 kW (160 hp) Shvetsov M-11FR-1 radial piston engine, it entered service in 1946. It was also produced in China as the Nanchang CJ-5.

A member of the second generation of Russian aircraft designers, and best known for fighter designs, Alexander Sergeyevich Yakovlev always retained a light aircraft design section. In May 1945, Yakovlev initiated design of the Yak-18 two-seat primary trainer. He designed it to replace the earlier Yakovlev UT-2 and Yakovlev Yak-5 in service with the Soviet Air Forces and DOSAAF (Voluntary Society for Collaboration with the Army, Air Force and Navy, which sponsored aero clubs throughout the USSR). In 1944, an advanced version of the UT-2 had been built with many of the features of the new Yak-18. The new aircraft flew a year later, powered by a 119 kW (160 hp) Shvetsov M-11 five-cylinder radial engine and featuring pneumatically operated retractable main landing gear and a fixed tailwheel. It entered service as a trainer later that year and was built by Yakovlev up until 1956. Examples were exported to China in kit form beginning in 1950. The Chinese began producing license built copies in 1954 with the designation CJ-5.

The Yak-18's greatest claim to fame is its use as a night bomber by the North Korean Air Force during the Korean War. The aircraft were modified with bomb racks on the wing center section and flew over UN troop locations at night to drop bombs and harass UN forces. The single most successful attack of the North Korean aviation during the war was the destruction of a fuel dump with nearly 5.5 million US gallons (21 million l; 4.6 million imp gal) of fuel in the Inchon area in June 1953 by four or five Yak-18s. The five-cylinder engine reminded many of the US troops of the sound made by early gasoline powered washing machines, earning them the name: "Washing Machine Charlie". The name "Bed Check Charlie" was also used for these night intruders. The Yak-18s, along with Polikarpov Po-2s, became quite a nuisance until US night fighters began shooting them down. One night fighter crashed shooting down a Bed Check Charlie and another night fighter rammed its target.

Other claims to fame for the Yak-18 are an international speed record for its class in 1951 as well as being the aircraft used for initial flight training by Yuri Gagarin (1st human in space) and Ken Rowe (No Kum-Sok, who defected from North Korea with a Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-15 jet fighter during the Korean War). Later, as the need for conventional landing gear trainers abated, Yakovlev re-designed the Yak-18 with retractable tricycle landing gear and an Ivchenko AI-14RF radial engine of 224 kW (300 hp); this was designated the Yak-18A. The design proved exceptionally easy to build and maintain.

There are an estimated 40 original Yak-18s in existence worldwide. Five are currently flyable in the US, three are flyable in Europe, and the Chinese Air Force has one flyable with several other airframes in storage. Approximately four other aircraft worldwide are currently being restored for flight. Many are found in major aviation museums worldwide including the National Air and Space Museum in the USA. The Nanchang CJ-6, produced in China, is sometimes quoted as a variant but is a completely different aircraft designed in China by Bushi Cheng and built by Nanchang Aircraft Company.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Afghanistan, Albania, Armenia, Austria, Bulgaria, Cambodia, China, Egypt, Guinea, Hungary, Iraq, Laos (People's Democratic Republic), Mali, Mongolia, North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Poland, Romania, Somalia, Turkmenistan, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia.

Here is Variants information for the Yak-18 (Max) Russian Trainer Aircraft:
The Yak-18 is The original production version. Retractable main undercarriage, fixed tailwheel..
The Yak-18U is This version was built in small numbers. It had retractable tricycle landing gear..
The Yak-18A is Cleaned up version of the Yak-18U, powered by a 194 kW (260 hp) Ivchenko AI-14 FR engine. Built in large numbers..
The Yak-18P (NATO reporting name Mouse) is Single-seat aerobatic aircraft for use by flying clubs. Adaptation of Yak-18 two-seat trainer..
The Yak-18PM is Single-seat aerobatic aircraft with retractable tricycle landing gear..
The Yak-18PS is Aerobatic aircraft with retractable tailwheel..
The Hongzhuan-501 (Red Craftsman) is Probable original designation for early CJ-5 production aircraft..
The Nanchang CJ-5 is The Yak-18 was built under licence in China as the CJ-5 for use by the PLAAF, PLANAF and civilian flying clubs; 379 CJ-5s had been built when production ended in 1958..

Here is System information for the Yak-18 (Max) Russian Trainer Aircraft:
The Alternate Designation(s) is Yak-18; NATO: Max.
The Primary Function / Type is Training Aircraft.
The Manufacturer is Yakovlev.
The Crew is 2 (pilot, student).
The Number of Engines is 1.
The Number of Hard Points is INA.

Here is Dimensions information for the Yak-18 (Max) Russian Trainer Aircraft:
The Length is 8.53 m.
The Height is 3.35 m.
The Wingspan is 10.60 m.
The Wing Area is 17.00 sq m.
The Weight, Empty is 1,025 kg.
The Weight, Maximum  Takeoff is 1,316 kg.
The Payload is 306 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Yak-18 (Max) Russian Trainer Aircraft:
The Engine Name is 1 x Ivchenko AI-14R.
The Number of Engines is 1.
The Engine Type is 9-cylinder radial piston.
The Engine Power is 260 hp.
The Maximum Speed is 262 km/h.
The Cruise Speed is 227 km/h.
The Range is 750 km.
The Climb Rate is 318 m/min.
The Ceiling is 5,060 m.
The Takeoff Run is 200 m.
The Landing Run is 200 m.

Here is Fire Control / Avionics information for the Yak-18 (Max) Russian Trainer Aircraft:
The Fire Control System Type is INA.
The Fire Control Radar is None.
The Laser Desingator is None.

Here is Protection information for the Yak-18 (Max) Russian Trainer Aircraft:
The Stealth Properties is None.
The Heat Signature Reduction is No.
The Add on Armor is INA.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The EW Counter Measures is No.
The Chaffs/Flares is No.

