This document describes the Y-8 Chinese Transport Aircraft.

The Shaanxi Y-8 or Yunshuji-8 (Chinese: 运-8) aircraft is a medium size medium range transport aircraft produced by Shaanxi Aircraft Corporation in China, based on the Soviet Antonov An-12. It has become one of China's most popular military and civilian transport/cargo aircraft, with many variants produced and exported. Although the An-12 is no longer made in Ukraine, the Chinese Y-8 continues to be upgraded and produced. An estimated 169 Y-8 aircraft had been built by 2010.

In the 1960s, China purchased several An-12 aircraft from the Soviet Union, along with license to assemble the aircraft locally. However, due to the Sino-Soviet split, the Soviet Union withdrew its technical assistance. The Xi'an Aircraft Company and Xi'an Aircraft Design Institute worked to reverse engineer the An-12 for local production.

Design of the aircraft was completed by February 1972. Major features of the Y-8 included a glazed nose and tail turret derived from that of the H-6 bomber, a roller-type palletized-cargo-handling device instead of the overhead conveyor, and a gaseous oxygen system as opposed to a liquid oxygen system. The original Y-8 inherited the An-12's twin 23mm cannon tail turret, but this was removed on subsequent variants.

The Y-8 equipped with four turboprop engines mounted under the leading edges of non-swept wings. The wings are attached high on the fuselage, and the tricycle landing gear is equipped with low pressure tires. The earliest versions used for the transportation of freight or troops had two side-hinged, inward-opening doors, while later variants used a rearward-facing ramp to facilitate loading and unloading of the payload. Some specialized versions omit the cargo ramp entirely.

The Y-8 is capable of carrying troops, dropping supplies, parachute drops, and functioning as an air ambulance. It also can be used for commercial uses as a freighter. It is capable of hauling 20 tons of cargo, approximately 96 soldiers, or about 82 paratroopers in the cargo compartment which is 13.5 meters long, 3 metres wide and 2.4 metres high. It can also carry 60 severely wounded soldiers with their stretchers, 20 slightly injured soldiers and 3 medical attendants. Many variants for specialized roles have been built, but information on them can be vague or difficult to obtain due to the secretive nature of the Chinese military.

The Y-8 transport aircraft was put into trial production in the Xi'an Aircraft Factory in June 1972. By December 1974, the first Chinese-assembled Y-8 conducted its maiden flight. Following trial production of the first Y-8s, operations were transferred to the Shaanxi Aircraft Factory. The Shaanxi-produced Y-8s conducted their test flights in December 1975. After a regime of 66 test flights the Y-8 was officially certified for use by the Chinese government. By 1981, the Y-8 entered serial production.[2] Mr. Ouyang Shaoxiu (欧阳绍修) would eventually become the general designer, designing many variants of Y-8, including KJ-2000.

In the early 1980s, Chinese officials saw US Army recruiting advertisements featuring parachute extraction of an Army jeep along with troops. The PLA was told to develop this kind of capability. But there were two design problems. One, Y-8 wings have very sharp leading edges, so one wing tends to stall before the other, causing the aircraft to roll inverted as it stalls. The second design flaw as that the cargo deck of the Y-8 had a 10 degree downward slope starting at the landing gear.

When the PLA Air Force started to test parachute extraction, these two design flaws caused a near disaster. The aircraft was flying too fast, and when the parachute started to extract cargo from the hold, the cargo rolled on the deck until it got to the 10 degree downward slope, and there it became airborne while still inside the aircraft. The cargo hit the top of the cargo door on the way out, making it clear that the Y-8 could not do parachute cargo extraction.

In 1986, two engineers from Beijing's Ministry of Aviation visited Lockheed. They could not speak very much English, and the Lockheed-Georgia sales person who met them could not speak Chinese. So for half a day, they did a point-and-grunt tour until they were lucky enough to find a Lockheed employee who could speak Chinese. The Chinese wanted to purchase Lockheed wind tunnel testing on the Y-8 in order to address the stall problem.

As a result of these wind tunnel tests, conducted in 1986, Lockheed was given a contract to do a flight test series on the Y-8. Lockheed was told that flight test data was not provided by the Soviets when they helped China build the Y-8 factory. The flight test series was flown by Lockheed test pilot Hank Dees. Hank had flown the test flight series for the Lockheed L-1011 and later for China's Y-12 in Harbin.

During this flight test series, Hank Dees flew the aircraft to stall speed and taught Chinese pilots how to anticipate a stall in order to prevent letting the aircraft go inverted. As a result of this test flight series, Chinese pilots started to use the 45 degree flap position.

Lockheed's motive for doing flight tests was to demonstrate that China would be better off buying the C-130 rather than trying to improve the Y-8. China did buy C-130's, but the flight test series actually demonstrated that the Y-8 was a more capable aircraft than previously believed.

In the late 1980s, Lockheed Martin, the American manufacturer of the C-130 Hercules, helped China to develop a pressurized cabin for the passenger version of Y-8, resulting in two versions: the first had half of the cabin pressurized and later, the second version in which the complete cabin was pressurized.

In 2001 and 2002, new consulting arrangements between Antonov and Shaanxi resulted in modernized redesigns to the Y-8's wing and fuselage. As a consequence the redesign allows the Y-8's fuel capacity to be increased by 50 percent.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China, Kazakhstan, Myanmar, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Here is Variants information for the Y-8 Chinese Transport Aircraft:
The Note is Y-8
This was the original version. It was little different from the An-12 with a slightly modified glass nose copied from the design of the H-6 bomber. The cargo hold was not pressurized. Early production variants inherited the An-12 's tail turret, which mounts a twin 23-mm cannon, but this was later removed.

Y-8A
This variant was transformed into a helicopter carrier, serving as a general transport. It was designed to carry S-70C helicopters between their inland bases and the frontier airfields in Tibet. The airframe was specially modified to accommodate a single S-70C helicopter. The internal cargo handling system was determined to be unnecessary and was removed.

Y-8B
This is the civilian version. First flight took place in 1990 and it was certified in 1993.

Y-8C
This variant has the pressurized cabin volume increased from 1,000 cu ft (28.3 cu m) to 7,500 cu ft (212.4 cu m). Landing gear and air conditioning are upgraded. The original inward-open two-piece cargo loading doors were replaced by a single-piece flat loading ramp similar to that of the C-130 . First flight occurred on Dec. 17, 1990.
Shaanxi has also developed the Y-8CA radar testbed and Y-8CI export variant transport, the latter with Western avionics.

Y-8D
This is the export variant, fitted with Western avionics to meet the requirements for commercial flights. Onboard avionics include Collins flight director system (FDS), air data computer, VOR/ILS, comparing warning, TDR-90 air-traffic control receiver, VHF radio, Honeywell P-400 color weather radar, Litton LTN-311 Omega navigation system, Bendix/King HF communication, Sundsstrand universal flight data recorder (UFDR) and cockpit voice recorder (CVR). It is in service in Burma (Myanmar), Sri Lanka and Sudan.

Y-8D II
This is the latest export variant with avionics similar to those in the Y-8C.

Y-8E
This version is used for unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) launch and control. Development began in October 1988 and the first prototype was completed in March 1990. The first UAV launch test was carried out successfully in October of that year. The aircraft entered service with the Chinese air force in late 1990.

Y-8F
This is a livestock transport. It was certified on Jan. 26, 1994.

Y-8F100
This is a commercial freighter version of the Y-8, featuring improved avionics. The aircraft features a redesigned cargo compartment, which can carry four international standard pallets of 88 in x 108 in, or eight pallets of 88 in x 54 in, or three pallets of 96 in x 125 in. The cargo compartment is also fitted with a modernized cargo handling system, allowing fast loading/unloading.

Y-8F200
This is a commercial freighter version of the Y-8C, with upgraded avionics and a redesigned cargo compartment. The cargo handling system and large flat ramp enable rapid loading and unloading.

Y-8F200W
This variant features a fuselage that is 7 ft 3 in (2.2 m) longer than the baseline aircraft. The aircraft can take off from gravel or snow-covered runways at altitudes up to 9,840 ft (3,000 m) above sea level. It can also operate from unprepared runways.

Y-8F400
This is a modernized freighter variant with upgraded avionics. It requires a three-man flight crew instead of the original five-man crew. The original glass nose was replaced by a solid nose. The cargo compartment is equipped with a 2,000-lb (1,000-kg) payload overhead cargo system, where the cargo can be suspended from an electrically powered rail. Rollers in the floor of the cargo compartment enable quick and easy handling of cargo pallets and can be removed to leave a flat surface. The compartment is fully pressurized.

Y-8F600
This is the latest variant. Developed with the assistance of Antonov in Ukraine and Pratt & Whitney Canada, the aircraft is configured as a platform for airborne early warning and other special missions. First flight on occurred on Jan. 14, 2005.
The aircraft has been extensively modified and upgraded with Western technologies including turboprop engine and avionics. Development began in 1999, with Antonov and Pratt & Whitney Canada joining the program in by 2002. Under a 2002 contract, Shaanxi and Antonov are responsible for the joint design and assembly of prototypes, certification and series production. Pratt & Whitney was responsible for providing its PW150B engine.

Antonov provided Shaanxi with aerodynamic research, as well as documents on aircraft maintainability and service life. The company also designed the new wing with fuel tanks.

The Y-8F600 features an advanced two-man glass cockpit. The aircraft is equipped with data link, flight management and control, and near ground warning system.The transport is powered by four P&W PW150B turboprop engines. All-composite six-blade R-408 propellers are fitted. The new propulsion system provides for improved takeoff performance at hot and high conditions and high-altitude cruise performance, extended engine service life and lower engine operating and maintenance costs. Noise levels are also reduced to meet airport noise restrictions. The Y-8F600's maximum takeoff weight is increased to 65 tons.

Y-8G
This variant was first revealed in April 2005. First flight took place in late 2004. Seven aircraft are known to be in service with the Chinese air force.
The aircraft features two large cheek fairings of an arch shape, which might house a large ECM antenna array for long-range electronic jamming purpose. It also has a redesigned solid nose with the undernose radome removed. A large tail fairing may provide 360-degree coverage. Another cylindrical fairing can be seen on top of the vertical tailfin.

Y-8H
This is an aerial survey and photography variant.
Y-8J maritime surveillance aircraft
These are Y-8C transports fitted with British Skymaster radars for maritime surveillance missions. China procured six to eight of the radars from Racal (now Thales) in 1996 deal worth US$66 million. At least two of the aircraft remain in Chinese naval service and are deployed at Dachang naval air base near Shanghai.
The original glass nose on the Y-8 is replaced by a large radome to accommodate the radar antenna on the Y-8J. The rear cargo door and loading ramp are also removed.

Y-8JB
This is an electronic intelligence (ELINT) variant first seen in mid-2004 near Shanghai. A prototype first flew on Aug. 26, 2003, and four aircraft are in service with the Chinese navy.
The aircraft has a large chin-mounted radome that could house a large ELINT antenna. Another SATCOM antenna may be installed inside a large semi-spherical dorsal fairing forward of the vertical tailfin providing real-time transmission to the ground base. Numerous smaller fairings can be seen on top of the cabin and along the upper sections of the aft fuselage, as well as at the nose tip. The loading ramp appears to have been sealed. The aircraft has been fitted with a BM/KZ800 ELINT system.

Y-8X maritime patrol aircraft (MPA)
This Y-8X is fitted with a Litton Canada APS-504 search radar, dual Litton LTN-72R inertial navigational system and a single LTN-211 Omega navigation set. The first example was delivered to the Chinese navy in late 1984, and the aircraft received national design certification in 1985. A small number have been in service since the mid-1980s.
The aircraft is equipped with search radar, navigation system, self-defense electronic countermeasures (ECM) suite, optical/infrared cameras, sonobuoys and sonar receiver. The rear cargo door was removed and replaced by a large mission equipment window for sonobuoys racks and cameras. The rear turret was also removed and replaced by the sonar operator seat.

A canoe-shaped fairing plus a couple of blade antennas appear to have been attached to the bottom of the middle and aft fuselage, suggesting the aircraft's electronic intelligence mission has been enhanced with a new synthetic aperture radar (SAR) capability.

Y-8XZ psychological operations aircraft
This version was unveiled publicly in April 2008, although it reportedly entered Chinese air force service in late 2007.
The aircraft features large fairings located forward of the main landing gear compartments as well as two large plate antennas on each side of the rear fuselage. Other features include two blade antennas on both sides of the vertical tailfin, a wire antenna underneath the rear fuselage and a large SATCOM antenna on top of the rear fuselage.

The Y-8XZ has high-power broadcast equipment covering AM, FM, SW, TV plus various civilian and military communication bands, and is able to jam enemy communications as well as deliver propaganda broadcasts.

KJ-200
This is an airborne early warning and control aircraft based on the Y-8F600 airframe. See separate record for more information.
Y-8 tanker
Flight Refueling Ltd. of the U.K. studied the possibility of converting the Y-8 into an in-flight refueling aircraft. No Y-8Ts are known to be in service.
Y-8 airborne early warning aircraft
This is a third Chinese airborne early warning aircraft program, following the KJ-2000 and KJ-200 (see separate records); it was revealed in 2005. Based on the Shaanxi Y-8F400 airframe, the aircraft features a conventional rotodome mounted above the fuselage. At least one prototype has been built and the program may be aimed at the export market.
Y-8CB
This is an electronic countermeasures (ECM) variant first seen publicly in July 2005. First flight was on Jan. 26, 2000. At least four are thought to be in air force service, replacing the obsolete HD-5 ECM aircraft. Some may have been upgraded with additional equipment, including a dorsal satellite communications (SATCOM) antenna.
The aircraft features a ventral canoe fairing underneath the forward fuselage, which may house a large ECM or synthetic aperture radar (SAR) antenna. An antenna array consisting of several rows of smaller ECM antennas can be seen protruding out of the rear loading ramp, which is thought to have been sealed. A few more antennas are located under the fuselage between the main landing gear cabins. The aircraft may carry the 300 and 308 systems to jam enemy communication networks and radar systems.

Y-8T command post aircraft
This is a command post aircraft. First flight occurred in August 2004. Three aircraft are in service with the Chinese air force.
The Y-8T features a redesigned fuselage with the loading ramp and tail gun turret removed. A dorsal fairing is located aft of the wing section, which may house a SATCOM antenna. Multiple antenna arrays can be seen along the top and bottom of the fuselage, as well as on the vertical tailfin.

ZDK-03
This variant, based on the Y-8F600, was designed specifically for the Pakistani air force for airborne early warning missions. It features an active electronically scanned array (AESA) radar. Islamabad has ordered four of the aircraft. The first unit was scheduled to be delivered by the end of 2010. See separate record for more information.
GX-7
This is a Y-8 aircraft modified for psychological warfare missions. It is designed to broadcast messages over radio and television signals and can jam enemy communications.
The GX-7 was first made public by Chinese media in July 2013.

Y-8Q/Y-8GX6
This variant was first revealed in November 2011 and was reported in service in mid-2015. The Y-8Q features a redesigned wing and pressurized fuselage with composite structures; WJ-6C turboshaft engines; and high-efficiency, six-bladed propellers.
It is distinguishable from other Y-8/Y-9 variants by a large chin-mounted sea search radar; electro-optical system behind the nose wheel; and a weapons bay just ahead of the main wheels. There is also a magnetic anomaly detector (MAD) boom and domed windows in the aft fuselage for observation.
A fuselage weapons bay, located ahead of the main landing gear, would likely carry torpedoes. It has been speculated that the Y-8Q has fuselage sonobuoy dispensers and hardpoints on the wings for anti-ship missiles..

Here is System information for the Y-8 Chinese Transport Aircraft:
The Alternate Designation(s) is Y-8.
The Primary Function / Type is Transport Aircraft.
The Manufacturer is Shaanxi Aircraft Corporation.
The Crew is 6.
The Passengers is 96.
The Number of Engines is 4.
The Number of Hard Points is INA.

Here is Dimensions information for the Y-8 Chinese Transport Aircraft:
The Length is 34.02 m.
The Height is 11.16 m.
The Width (Wing Span) is 38.00 m.
The Wing Area is 121.86 sq m.
The Cargo Area, Length is 13.5 m.
The Cargo Area, Width is 3.0 m.
The Cargo Area, Height is 2.4 m.
The Empty Weight is 35,500 kg.
The Maximum Payload Weight is 20,000 kg.
The Maximum Takeoff Weight is 61,000 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Y-8 Chinese Transport Aircraft:
The Engine Name is 4 x Wojiang-6 turboprop.
The Number of Engines is 4.
The Engine Type is Turboprop.
The Engine Power is 4,250 equivalent hp each.
The Maximum Range is 5,615 km.
The Cruise Speed is 550 km/h.
The Maximum Speed is 662 km/h.
The Service Ceiling is 10,400 m.
The Rate of Climb is 600 m/min.
The Endurance is 10.5 hours.

Here is Fire Control / Avionics information for the Y-8 Chinese Transport Aircraft:
The FCS Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is No.
The Navigation Radar is INA.

Here is Protection information for the Y-8 Chinese Transport Aircraft:
The Stealth Properties is No.
The Heat Signature Reduction is No.
The Add on Armor is No.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The EW Counter Measures is INA.
The Chaffs/Flares is INA.

