This document describes the PTM-1 (PGMDM) Russian Anti-Vehicle Mine.

PTM-1 (PGMDM) Russian Anti-Vehicle Self-Destruct Mine also known as PGMDM (ПГMДM - Protivo-Gutsenitsnaja Mina Distantsionava Minirovanija) a dispenser ejected Scatterable anti-vehicle, self-destruct, blast landmine. The mine is OD green.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Afghanistan, Czech Republic, Russian Federation, Ukraine.

Here is Variants information for the PTM-1 (PGMDM) Russian Anti-Vehicle Mine:
The PTM1-G (MVDM-G fuze) is The MVDM-G fuze operates in a similar way to the MVDM, except that the arming rod also releases the hydraulic SD mechanism. Should the mine fail to function under pressure, the hydraulic SD system will release a striker to initiate the mine between 3 hours and 40 hours after deployment, dependent mainly on temperature..
The PTM-1S (MVDM fuze) is This is the Russian PTM-1S (ПТM-1C) also known as PGMDM (ПГMДM - Protivo-Gutsenitsnaja Mina Distantsionava Minirovanija) a dispenser ejected scatterable, anti-vehicle, self-destruct, blast landmine.

The landmine is green with a plastic casing.

The landmine can be scattered from helicopters or submunition warheads from the BM-21 (122mm) or the Uragan (220mm) rocket systems..

Here is System information for the PTM-1 (PGMDM) Russian Anti-Vehicle Mine:
The Alternate Designation is PTM-1; PGMDM.
The Type is Anti-Vehicle Self-Destruct Mine.
The Manufacturer is INA.
The Emplacement Method is Remote-surface: UMZ, MRL, aircraft, PKM portable inf.
The Type of Explosive is PVV-12M or PVV-12S (PTM-1); PVV-12S-1 (PTM1-G).
The Fuze Designation is MVDM or MVDM-G.
The Operating Pressure is 150–400 kg.
The Delay is 60–100 second delay, which allows the mine to settle before arming..
The Neutralisation Capability is This mine cannot be neutralised. This mine should never be approached within the SD period (ie less than 40 hours after deployment)..
The Disarming Capability is The mine cannot be disarmed.This mine should never be approached within the SD period (ie less than 40 hours after deployment)..
The Destruction Method is The disposal method recommended by the Russian military is destruction by projectile attack (vehicle-mounted machine gun)..

Here is Dimensions information for the PTM-1 (PGMDM) Russian Anti-Vehicle Mine:
The Length is 337 mm.
The Width is 70 mm.
The Height is 69 mm.
The Explosive Weight is 1.1 kg.
The Total Weight is 1.6 kg.

