This document describes the Hurricane Ukrainian 8x8 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP).

The Hurricane Ukrainian 8x8 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) role is to carry troops to the battlefield under armor. This armored vehicle can be also used to evacuate wounded soldiers or carry various military cargo.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Ukraine.

Here is System information for the Hurricane Ukrainian 8x8 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Alternative Designation is Hurricane.
The Type is Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP).
The Manufacturer is AutoKrAZ.
The Configuration is 8x8.
The Crew is 2.
The Passengers is 10.
The Payload Capacity is 3,500kg.

Here is Dimensions information for the Hurricane Ukrainian 8x8 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Length is 9.32 m.
The Width is 2.58 m.
The Height is 3.1 m.
The Weight, Combat is 22,000 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Hurricane Ukrainian 8x8 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Engine Name is Cummins ISME 385.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 370 hp.
The Maximum Range is 1,200 km.
The Maximum Speed is 90 km/h.
The Amphibious is No.
The Gradient is 60%.
The Side Slope is 30%.
The Vertical Obstacle is 0.6 m.
The Trench is 2.0 m.
The Fording is 1.2 m.
The Turning Radius is 14 m.

Here is Communications information for the Hurricane Ukrainian 8x8 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Note is HF and VHF radio systems may be added for the driver and commander..

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Hurricane Ukrainian 8x8 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Note is In its base configuration, a protected weapon station (PWS) is available on the top of the hull, which can be armed with an MG in the desired calibre. The turret also functions as an escape hatch. In its base APC configuration, gun ports can be installed either through the windows or underneath each window. The number of windows and gun ports are dependent on customer requirements..

Here is Protection information for the Hurricane Ukrainian 8x8 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Hull Armor is AutoKrAZ provides Hurricane with ballistic protection up to STANAG 4569 Level 2 and mine protection up to STANAG 4569 Level 2 a or b. Both can be increased to Level 3 on demand. The Streit company markets the Hurricane with up to STANAG 4569 Level 4; it is unspecified if this is for mine or ballistic protection..
The Applique Armor is Available.
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is No.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

