This document describes the Hero-120 American Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The Hero-120 American Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) is medium range anti-armored system, designed to provide front-line forces with organic capabilities that allow them to operate independently, without having to rely on fire support or intelligence gathering from other units or higher echelons.

Being man-portable and/or mounted on a vehicle the system can be easily carried right in to the heart of the operational arena, and easily launched from a protected, hidden position, with very low signature, allowing the launching team maximum safety and flexibility. 

The Hero-120 systems are especially designed to provide significant advantage to field-deployed tactical units and small independent and dismounted forces (including Special Forces). They allow these forces to employ a unique combination of independent Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance (ISR) Ability, along with extended-range Beyond Line of Sight (BLOS) fire-power. The Hero-120 is launched pneumatically from a launcher generating low acoustic and visual signatures. Once launched, the system provides the operator with the ability to independently locate targets, ‘investigate’ them (using a gimbaled Electro-Optic & Infra-Red camera), choose the direction, the angle and the timing of the attack, and eventually engage the target with pin-point precision. If the situation changes at the last minute the operator can abort the attack in mid-air, return to loitering, and then re-engage the target, choose a different target or stop the mission completely.

Operating and controlling the Loitering Munition is done by the operator (man-in-the-loop at all times) by using communication (datalink-terminal) and hand-held Fire-Control Unit (FCU/OCU). 

The Hero-120 also enables ‘transfer of control’ from the operator to a forward-deployed force that can receive control over the munition and fully utilize it for its missions.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: United States of America.

