This document describes the Cobra II Turkish 4x4 Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC).

First unveiled at IDEF 2013, the Cobra II is a more heavily armored successor to the Cobra. The Cobra II has a combat weight that is roughly double that of its predecessor and is slightly wider, longer, and taller.

Standard equipment includes a rearview camera, thermal front camera, air conditioning system, blackout lighting system, multi-point seat belts, radio provisions, and a towing eye. It can be optionally equipped with a self-recovery winch, nuclear, biological, and chemical filtration kit, an automation fire extinguishing system, an intercom system, a navigation system, and an auxiliary power unit. In an APC configuration, the vehicle can carry nine personnel and can be armed with a number of different weapons, including crew-operated machine guns and remote weapon stations armed with short-range surface-to-air missiles and grenade launchers. Powered by a 6.7 L, six-cylinder, water-cooled, turbocharged, common rail diesel engine that produces 281 hp, its maximum road speed is 110 km/h on roads and has a maximum cruising range of 700 km with an operating temperature from -10 up to 45 degrees C.

Otokar has received orders for the Cobra II both from an undisclosed customer and from the Turkish Armed Forces.

In late 2015, the Turkish Armed Forces ordered 82 Cobra II vehicles plus related systems, maintenance, and support worth $52 million. In June 2016, the Turkish Armed Forces ordered an undisclosed number of Cobra II vehicles plus related systems, maintenance, and support worth $120.8 million. Assuming the same value-to-vehicle ratio as the 2015 order, this would imply an order of about 180 vehicles.

Cobra II amphibious
There is an amphibious and slightly larger variant of the Cobra II with a more powerful 6.7 L, 360Hp, V6 turbocharged engine that is capable of crossing lakes and smaller bodies of water

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Burkina Faso, Georgia, Ghana, Iraq, Kazakhstan, Maldives, Mauritania, Nigeria, Pakistan, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Slovenia, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates.

Here is Variants information for the Cobra II Turkish 4x4 Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC):
The APC is Basic variant; carries 8-12 troops & 12.7-mm MG; open or turret-mounted 40-mm AGL, 25-mm cannon, or 30-mm cannon..
The Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle is Crew of 4 in vehicle with a 25mm cannon and FLIR..
The Armored C2 Vehicle is Command and control vehicle with a crew of 6 armed 7.62mm machine guns..
The Armored Ambulance is Evacuates 4 litter or 6 ambulatory patients and medical gear..
The TOW Missile Carrier is Crew of 5 with a TOW ATGM with a range of 3750m or Rafael overhead weapons system with Spike AT missiles..
The Cobra EOD Vehicle is Designed for explosive ordnance disposal with controlled blade on front of vehicle operated by driver..
The Cobra Reconnaissance / Surveillance Vehicle is Target acquisition for higher unit commands..
The Cobra Twin-Turret is Rotating turret with 40mm AGL and 12.7mm machine gun..
The Cobra Amphibious Vehicle is Allows vehicle to enter water without any preparation..
The NBC Reconnaissance Vehicle is Equipped with NBC sensors..
The Cobra II is First unveiled at IDEF 2013, the Cobra II is a more heavily armoured successor to the Cobra. The Cobra II has a combat weight that is roughly double that of its predecessor and is slightly wider, longer and taller..
The Cobra II amphibious is There is an amphibious and slightly larger variant of the Cobra II with a more powerful 6.7 L, 360Hp, V6 turbocharged engine that is capable of crossing lakes and smaller bodies of water.

Here is System information for the Cobra II Turkish 4x4 Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC):
The Alternative Designation is Cobra II; Otokar Cobra II.
The Description is 4x4 light; 10 troops besides the crew; 4 side doors, rear door, and 2 roof hatches; 3 firing ports on each side of vehicle and 1 in rear door..
The Function is Its various functions are security and peacekeeping operations and border protection.
The Manufacturer is Otokar.
The Crew is 2.
The Passengers is 7.
The Rear View Camera is Yes.
The Therma Front Camera is Yes.
The Air Conditioning System is Yes.
The Black Out Lighting System is Yes.
The Towing Eye is Yes.
The Recovery Winch is Avaialble.
The Navigation System is Yes.
The Auxilary Power Unit is Yes.

Here is Dimensions information for the Cobra II Turkish 4x4 Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC):
The Length is 5.6.
The Width is 2.5.
The Height is 2.2.
The Wheelbase is 3.30.
The Ground Clearance is 0.33.
The Weight is 12,000.

Here is Automotive information for the Cobra II Turkish 4x4 Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC):
The Engine Name is 1 x 6.7L, six-cylinder, water cooled, turbo charged, common rail, diesel engine.
The Engine Type is Turbo Diesel.
The Power-to-Weight Ratio is 30 hp/metric ton.
The Engine Power is 281.
The Range, Cruising is 700.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 110.
The Speed, Maximum Swim is 8.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed, Maximum Off is INA.
The Fuel is 155 liters, compatible with F-34 and F-54 fuel.
The Transmision is Automatic, six forward and one reverse.
The Suspension is fully independent suspension is fitted with spring and shock absorber.
The Gradient is 70.
The Side Slope is 40.
The Vertical Step is 0.32.
The Tench is 900.
The Fording Depth is Amphibious.
The Acceleration is 0-60 km/h in 14 seconds.
The Turning Radius is 7.86.
The Angle of Departure is 48.
The Angle of Approach is 60.
The Brakes is air-over hydraulic service brakes are equipped with anti-locking brake system (ABS).
The Central Tire Inflation System (CTIS) is Yes.
The Tires is Run Flat.
The Electrical System is onboard power is provided by 24V electrical system integrating 400A alternator and 120Ah batteries.

Here is Communications information for the Cobra II Turkish 4x4 Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC):
The Radio is Radio varies on customer needs.
The Intercom is Yes.

Here is System information for the Cobra II Turkish 4x4 Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC) of the Main Weapon System:
The Name is M2 Browning.
The Type is Heavy Machine Gun.
The Manufacturer is Current: General Dynamics, Fabrique Nationale (FNH / FNA / FNH UK), Ohio Ordnance Works Inc..
The In Service is 1918-Present.
The Length is 1,654 mm.
The Barrel Length is 1,143 mm.
The Weight, Gun Only is 38 kg.
The Weight, Gun with Tripod and T&E is 58 kg.
The Action is Short recoil-operated.
The Rate of Fire is 450–600 rounds/min.
The Effective Firing Range is 1,800.
The Maximum Firing Range is 7,400.
The Feed System is Belt-fed (M2 or M9 links).

Here is Ammunition information for the Cobra II Turkish 4x4 Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC) of the Main Weapon System:
The Type is Rifle.
The Caliber is 12.7.
The Cartridge is .50 BMG (12.7×99mm NATO).
The Muzzle Velocity is 890.
The Basic Load is 1,000.

Here is Fire Control information for the Cobra II Turkish 4x4 Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC):
The Fire Control System is No.
The Main Gun Stabilization is INA.
The Night Vision is INA.

Here is Protection information for the Cobra II Turkish 4x4 Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC):
The Armor Type is All-welded steel hull.
The Armor, Applique is Available.
The Armor, Turret Front is The armoured hull of Cobra II offers protection against 7.62mm rounds and artillery shell splinters.
The Armor, Explosive Reactive is Available.
The Active Protection System is No.
The NBC Protection is A  CBRN defense filtration kit is optional.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is No.
The Smoke Equipment is Yes.
The Survivability Equipment is Electrical self-recovery winch; fire suppression system..
The Automation Fire Extinguishing System is Yes.
The Note is The bottom of the crew compartment is fitted with a removable parabolic-shaped plate for deflection of blast.

