This document describes the Zodiac F470 Class American Combat Rubber Raiding Craft (CRRC).

The F470 Zodiac can be used for over-the-horizon transportation, inserting lightly armed raiding parties or reconnaissance teams onto beaches, piers, offshore facilities and larger vessels. The CRRC can be inflated in minutes by foot pump, compressor or CO2 tank and can be deployed from shore and a variety of vessels. Additionally, it can be launched from several types of aircraft and submarines equipped with a special lockout chamber or a Dry Deck Shelter. Its chief advantages are light weight, compact size when stowed, stealth, versatility, and the safety imparted by its super-buoyant nature (which gives it the ability to operate in relatively high seas).

A total of six individual airtight chambers comprise the Wing P4.7. The main hull or gunwale contains five intercommunicating chambers, which are separated by internal baffles and valves. This means that a single leak will not result in loss of pressure throughout the boat, and that air can be bled between chambers to compensate for loss in one. The final chamber is an inflatable keel tube which runs the length of the craft and gives the bottom of the hull a "V" shape, imparting directional stability and additional shock absorption. A composite decay proof "transom" board at the stern provides a mounting point for the outboard engine(s) . The deck (floor) is composed of four interlocking composite plates, which are fixed to the "thrust board" at the bow end and the transom at the stern. This rigid structure, spanning the entire internal area of the boat, prevents the hull from collapsing or "taco-ing" under power.


U.S. Marines from the Battalion Landing Team 2/2 go ashore in a CRRC during a 2003 exercise.
A ready-for-use craft includes an outboard engine (two in some configurations); removable composite deckplates or roll-up slatted decking; paddles; a bow line for securing the docked boat and a "righting" line which is used to flip the boat in the event of capsizing. At the bow of the boat are storage bags for equipment (foot pumps, extra lines, etc.) and a special fuel bladder, which can be of either 6- or 18-gallon capacity and which feeds the engine via a flexible hose. Deflated and rolled up, the boat and all necessary equipment can easily fit into the bed of a small pickup. Most military CRRC's use a 55 horsepower (41 kW) two-stroke engine with a pumpjet propulsor, which consists of a shrouded impeller.[4] This design reduces the risk of serious injury to personnel in the water when compared to the traditional open propeller. It also reduces the risk of the propulsion system being seriously damaged by submerged objects.

A specially-trained coxswain sits at the stern (rear) of the boat and controls it via the tiller arm, attached to an outboard engine. The coxswain is considered the commander of the craft and is ultimately responsible for its operation, regardless of whether a senior-ranking individual is on board. Across from him sits the assistant coxswain, who relays hand signals from other boats and aids the coxswain as required. The remaining passengers (six raiders plus the two coxswains make up a full team) normally lay on and straddle the gunwale, keeping a low silhouette to help avoid detection and leaving room on the deck for weapons, equipment and (if necessary) additional fuel bladders.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: United States of America.

Here is System information for the Zodiac F470 Class American Combat Rubber Raiding Craft (CRRC):
The Alternative Designation is F470 Zodiac.
The Type is Combat Rubber Raiding Craft (CRRC).
The Family is Zodiac.
The Crew is 1.
The Troop Compartment Capacity is 10.
The Skin Type is Tear-Resistant Duratane Skin for heavy duty abuse.
The Time to Inflate is 2.
The Number of Chambers is 8.

Here is Dimensions information for the Zodiac F470 Class American Combat Rubber Raiding Craft (CRRC):
The Length is 4.75.
The Width is 1.89.
The Height is 0.61.
The Weight, Empty is 146.
The Displacement (Surface) is .
The Stowed Foorprint is 2 ft. 6 in. x 4 ft. 11 in..

Here is Automotive information for the Zodiac F470 Class American Combat Rubber Raiding Craft (CRRC):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is 1 x OUtboard 2 or 4 stroke Engine with pump jet propulsion.
The Engine Power is 55.
The Cruising Range is varies depending on fuel load and payload.
The Speed, Surface is 18.
The Propeller is Shrouded Impeller.
The Maximum Payload, inlcuding fuel is 1,250.

