This document describes the Viper Class Indonesian Patrol Boat.

Viper class is a Type PC-40 fiberglass patrol craft of the Indonesian Navy. It was commissioned from 20 October 2006 by Indonesian National Armed Forces Commander Marshal Djoko Suyanto.

There are a total of six craft in this class, Viper, Piton, Weling, Matacora, Tedung Selar, Boiga.As 2018 four craft remained in service while two craft were decommissioned.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Indonesia.

Here is Variants information for the Viper Class Indonesian Patrol Boat:
The Viper is Status: Active.
The Piton is Status: Active.
The Weling is Status: Active.
The Matacora is Status: Active.
The Tedung Selar is Status: Active.
The Boiga is Status: Active.

Here is System information for the Viper Class Indonesian Patrol Boat:
The Alternative Designation is Viper Class.
The Type is Patrol Boat.
The Builder is Indonesia; Company: INA.
The Crew is 8.

Here is Dimensions information for the Viper Class Indonesian Patrol Boat:
The Length is 40 m.
The Beam is 7.3 m.
The Draft is INA.
The Displacement, Standard is INA.
The Displacement, Full Load is 100 tons.

Here is Propulsion System information for the Viper Class Indonesian Patrol Boat:
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Range is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 29 knots (54 km/h; 33 mph).
The Endurance is 4 days.

Here is Gun Weapon Systems information for the Viper Class Indonesian Patrol Boat:
The Note is The vessel is equipped with Russian-made 25 mm and 12.7 mm calibre machine guns..

Here is Fire Control Systems information for the Viper Class Indonesian Patrol Boat:
The FCS Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is No.
The Battle Management System is No.
The Combat Information Room is Yes.
The Communication Room is Yes.

Here is Radar Systems information for the Viper Class Indonesian Patrol Boat:
The Navigation Radar is INA.

Here is Protection information for the Viper Class Indonesian Patrol Boat:
The Active Protection System is No.
The Countermeasures is INA.
The NBC Water Washdown System is Yes.

