This document describes the Hummel German VHF Jamming System.

The Hummel is a tactical Very High Frequency (VHF) jammer with look through jamming capability. It is mainly intended to jam enemy multichannel links.
The Hummel is the first generation of the Cicada-C family of jammers.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Australia, Germany, Norway, Poland, Spain.

Here is Variants information for the Hummel German VHF Jamming System:
The Fuchs TpZ 1A1 is This version is a Hummel jammer mounted on a HELAS direction-finding vehicle..

Here is System information for the Hummel German VHF Jamming System:
The Alternative Designations is Hummel.
The Description is Threat multi-range jammer.
The Vehicle Range is 150-200.
The Power Supply is 6 / 15.
The Weight is 8 – 12.
The Frequency Range is 1.5 - 3,000.
The Transmit modulation is deception and burn through.
The FM Voice is YES.
The FM Telegraph / Teletype is YES.
The FM Facsimile is YES.
The AM Telegraph is YES.
The AM Voice is YES.
The PRESET FREQ is YES.
The BROAD JAM is YES.
The ATTACK JAM is YES.
The MANUAL JAM is YES.
The DECEPTION is YES.
The Broad jam bandwidth is up to 240 MHz, in 0.1 MHz steps, simultaneous generation of up to 16 separate broadband segments.
The Jamming efficiency is up to 16 simultaneously active radio nets.
The Mount is Fixed site, vehicle and airborne platforms available..
The Antenna Type is Omni directional or directional yagi.
The FM Morse Code is YES.
The AM Morse Code is YES.
The Fast scan speed is 250 / 1000 (upgraded variant).
The Passive Antennas is dipole or monopole antennas 
vertical or horizontal polarized omnidirectional antennas
antennas for operation on the move.
The Amplifier types is broadband, solid-state, liquid cooled.
The Max output power kW into 50 Ω is 10.
The Transmitter is Continuous-wave with cable link to antenna.
The Amplifier Power Consumption is 25.4.
The Width of radiation pattern lobe is 360.
The Automatic computer controlled jamming sequences is YES.
The High power Amplifier MAX is YES.
The “Look Through” Capability ensures jammer is only active when target signal is on the air is YES.
The Broadband TDM (barrage) jamming against simultaneous spread spectrum transmitters is YES.
The Programming protected frequencies is YES.
The Local or remote control is YES.
The Operation Temp is -25 - + 55.
The Storage Temp is -40 - +70.

