This document describes the Murmansk-BN Russian Long-Range Communications Jamming System.

The Murmansk-BN is a long-range communications jamming system specially designed to take out NATO and United States (US) high frequency military satellite communications. The Murmansk-BN electronic warfare (EW) system is being developed by KRET and has a maximum coverage of 3,000 kilometers (5,000 km or 8,000 km from other sources). This system was developed as part of a Russian strategic electronic warfare system and operates as a network centric capability. The primary target of the Murmansk-BN is the West's High Frequency Global Communications System (HFGCS). It was unveiled in November 2016 as the system prototype was achieving some test successes.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is System information for the Murmansk-BN Russian Long-Range Communications Jamming System:
The Alternative Designation is Murmansk-BN.
The Type is Long-Range Communications Jamming System.
The Manufacturer is KRET.
The In Service is 2016-Present.
The Crew is INA.

Here is Dimensions information for the Murmansk-BN Russian Long-Range Communications Jamming System:
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Weight, Combat is INA.
The Note is Chassis not identified.

Here is Automotive information for the Murmansk-BN Russian Long-Range Communications Jamming System:
The Note is Chassis not identified.

Here is Jamming System information for the Murmansk-BN Russian Long-Range Communications Jamming System:
The Maximum Coverage is 3,000 km.
The Frequency is INA.
The Target is The primary target of the Murmansk-BN is the West's High Frequency Global Communications System (HFGCS)..
The Note is The HFGCS is a worldwide network of transmitters which provides command and control communications between ground agencies and US military aircraft and ships. Washington’s military partners in NATO are said to have access to this network..

Here is Protection information for the Murmansk-BN Russian Long-Range Communications Jamming System:
The Note is Chassis not identified.

