This document describes the Type 82 Japanese 6x6 Armored C3 Command Vehicle.

The Type 82 Japanese 6 x 6 armored C2 Command Vehicle developed for use by the Japan Ground Self-Defense Force. Approximately 80% of its components can be found on the Type 87 reconnaissance and patrol vehicle, 
The vehicle is  built by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Tokyo, Japan. 

The Type 82 has an independent suspension with coil springs and hydropneumatic shock dampers at each wheel. The all-welded steel construction of the hull protects the crew from 7.62mm rounds and shrapnel.

The vehicle driver and another crewman (serving as a gunner) occupies positions in a cab-type compartment at the front of the vehicle hull. The driver sits on the right and the gunner on the left. The driver has a single-piece hatch cover equipped with an integral day periscope that traverses left and right. The gunner operates the pintle mounted 7.62 machine gun located in front of his hatch cover. 

The remaining 6 crew members and communication equipment are located in the raised rear portion of the hull. The engine is located on the left side of the hull behind the gunner and driver. The air inlet and outlet louvers are located in the roof of the vehicle.

Armored shutters (with 2 vision slits) are available to cover the front vehicle windshields during combat. Additional armored shutters cover windshields on either side of the forward vehicle driver and gunner positions.

The 12.7 mm machine gun with a shield is mounted forward of the right hatch cover above the rear crew compartment. The left hatch has 6 observation day periscopes.

Between the second and third axles is a door on the sides of the vehicle. The side doors may be equipped with observation and firing port. A rear door has a single observation and firing port. The rear door opens to the right.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Japan.

Here is Variants information for the Type 82 Japanese 6x6 Armored C3 Command Vehicle:
The Type 82 (6 x 6) NBC Reconnaissance Vehicle is This vehicle has nuclear, biological and chemical detectors  at the rear of the vehicle. A cupola is mounted on the roof of the vehicle instead of the hatches. A device for taking soil samples is located on the left rear corner of the vehicle. Also, the vehicle has stowage baskets mounted on either side of the vehicle..

Here is System information for the Type 82 Japanese 6x6 Armored C3 Command Vehicle:
The Alternative Designation is Type 82.
The Type is 6x6 Armored Command Vehicle.
The Manufacturer is Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Tokyo, Japan..
The Crew is 8.
The Passenger Capacity is N/A.

Here is Dimensions information for the Type 82 Japanese 6x6 Armored C3 Command Vehicle:
The Length is 5.72 m.
The Width is 2.48 m.
The Height is 2.38 m.
The Wheelbase is 1.5  m + 1.5 m.
The Ground Clearance is 0.45m.
The Combat Weight is 13,500 kg.
The Unloaded Weight is INA.

Here is Automotive information for the Type 82 Japanese 6x6 Armored C3 Command Vehicle:
The Engine Name is Isuzu 10PBI.
The Engine Type is 10 cylinder water-cooled diesel.
The Engine Power is 305 hp at 2,700 rpm.
The Fuel Capacity is INA.
The Suspension is An independent suspension with coil springs and hydropneumatic shock dampers at each wheel..
The Transmission is Automatic gearbox with 6 forward gears and 1 reverse gear..
The Range is 500 km at 100 kph.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 100.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is N/A.
The Vertical Obstacle is 0.60 m.
The Obstacle Trench is 1.50 m.
The Fording is 1.0 m.
The Gradient is 60 %.
The Turning Radius is 8.40 m.

Here is Main Gun information for the Type 82 Japanese 6x6 Armored C3 Command Vehicle:
The Primary is 1 x 7.62-mm machine gun.
The Anti-aircraft is 1 x 12.7-mm machine gun.

Here is Protection information for the Type 82 Japanese 6x6 Armored C3 Command Vehicle:
The Hull Armor is The all-welded steel construction of the hull protects the crew from 7.62mm rounds and shrapnel.
The Turret Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is Available.
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is No.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

