This document describes the GSL-133 Chinese Tracked Minefield Breaching Vehicle.

The GSL-133 is a Chinese minefield breaching vehicle. It is based on a Type 96 main battle tank chassis. This machine is used by China's military. The GSL-133 is based on the Type 96 main battle tank chassis. The turret has been removed and replaced by an armored superstructure. Specialized minefield breaching equipment was added. This armored vehicle was specially designed to clear pathways through minefields. It creates safe lanes for troops and vehicles to pass through minefields. This allows assault units to move rapidly through minefields before enemy forces establish defenses. It is used by engineer battalions.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is System information for the GSL-133 Chinese Tracked Minefield Breaching Vehicle:
The Alternative Designation is GSL-133.
The Type is Minefield Breaching Vehicle.
The Manufacturer is Norinco.
The Chassis is The GSL-133 is based on the Type 96 main battle tank chassis. The turret has been removed and replaced by an armored superstructure. Specialized minefield breaching equipment was added..
The Crew is 2-3.

Here is Minefield Breaching Equipment information for the GSL-133 Chinese Tracked Minefield Breaching Vehicle:
The Mine Plough is Mounted at the front.
The Rocket Launchers for Mine Clearing is Mounted at the rear of the superstructure. These are essentially rockets carrying explosives up to 100 m forward..
The Mine Clearing Lines is Mine clearing line charges are launched from the superstructure. These detonate mines, bombs, or improvised explosive devices at a safe distance and create a passage in the minefield with a length of around 100 m and a width of 4-5 m..
The Safety Lines is Yes.
The Clear Lane Marking System is Yes, Installed at the rear and it deploys pennants into the ground as the machine moves forward..

Here is Dimensions information for the GSL-133 Chinese Tracked Minefield Breaching Vehicle:
The Length is 11.0 m.
The Width is 3.3 m.
The Height is 3.0 m.
The Weight is 45-50 tons.

Here is Automotive information for the GSL-133 Chinese Tracked Minefield Breaching Vehicle:
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Water cooled, diesel.
The Engine Power is 1,000.
The Fuel Capacity is 400 Liters.
The Suspension is Torsion Bar.
The Range is 400.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 65.
The Speed, Maximum Off Road is 45.
The Speed Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.
The Gradient is 60%.
The Side Slope is 30%.
The Vertical Step is 0.7.
The Trench is 2.5.
The Fording is 1.4.

Here is Main Weapon System information for the GSL-133 Chinese Tracked Minefield Breaching Vehicle:
The Note is There are no crew-served weapons mounted on the GSL-133 Chinese Minefield Breaching Vehicle..

Here is Protection information for the GSL-133 Chinese Tracked Minefield Breaching Vehicle:
The Hull Armor is The protection level of this machine should be similar to that of the Type 96 main battle tank. steel + composite + explosive reactive armor..
The Applique Armor is Available, Track Skirts.
The Explosive Reactive Armor is Yes, 2nd generation ERA.
The Active Protection System is INA.
The Mine Clearing is Roller-plow available.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is INA.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is Grenlaunch 12x; VESS.
The IR Signature is INA.

