This document describes the PKP Pecheneg Russian 7.62mm General-Purpose Machine Gun.

Hezbollah Proliferation. The PKP Pecheneg is a Russian 7.62×54mmR general-purpose machine gun[6]. It is a further development and modification of the PK machine gun. It is said to be more accurate than all its predecessors due to a heavier, non-removable, forced-air-cooled barrel with radial cooling ribs and a handle which eliminates the haze effect from hot gases and keeps the barrel cooler, making the weapon more reliable. A steel jacket encloses the barrel to and runs up to the muzzle similarly to the Lewis machine gun provide forced air cooling. Low pressure created at the front of the jacket during firing draws cool air into the jacket through oval windows at the rear of the jacket. Furthermore, the weapon is capable of having a telescopic sight or other sights mounted on it, which increases its accuracy and effective range.

According to the manufacturer the PKP Pecheneg can fire 600 rounds in rapid fire scenarios without damaging the barrel. When conducting a long fire fight, it can fire up to 10,000 rounds of ammunition per hour without degrading the combat characteristics and reducing the life of the barrel. In general, the PKP Pecheneg retained up to 80% parts commonality with the PKM. Constant forced cooling of the barrel reduces dispersion when firing, and also increases the durability of the barrel. The service life of the barrel is estimated at 25,000 to 30,000 rounds.

The GRAU index of the PKP Pecheneg is 6P41 or 6P41N (PKP Pecheneg-N) when fitted with a mounting rail for a night vision sight. It is currently in use by Russian Army Spetsnaz and other troops in significant numbers. Even though it was developed mainly for infantry use, it also has been fitted to several light vehicles.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Egypt, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Namibia, Non-State Actors, Russian Federation, Syria.

Here is Variants information for the PKP Pecheneg Russian 7.62mm General-Purpose Machine Gun:
The PKP Pecheneg-N is The PKP Pecheneg-N is similar to the PKP Pecheneg but features a mounting rail for night vision sights..
The PKP Pecheneg-SP is The Pecheneg-SP is an improved variant of the PKP Pecheneg, and its GRAU index is 6P69. It has two main versions; a standard version and a special forces version. Titanium is now used for its construction. It was also reported that it now features a Picatinny rail for mounting the 1P89-3 unified optical sight and other optical sights, a telescopic folding stock and at the request of the Russian military, an additional tactical handle for the convenience when firing. According to the manufacturers, during transportation the gun can be folded, making it 30 mm (3 cm) shorter than the regular Kalashnikov rifle. It uses a shortened barrel and a suppressor for noiseless and flameless fire. Its serial production started in February 2017..
The Pecheneg Bullpup is The Pecheneg Bullpup is a bullpup conversion of the PKP Pecheneg developed by the Degtyarev plant.

Here is System information for the PKP Pecheneg Russian 7.62mm General-Purpose Machine Gun of the System:
The Name is PKP Pecheneg 7.62mm General Purpose Machine Gun.
The Type is General Purpose Machine Gun.
The Manufacturer is TsNIITochMash.
The Proliferation  is Hezbollah .
The Weight (without Bipod) is 8.2.
The Weight (with Bipod) is 8.7.
The Weight (with an Infantry Tripod Mount) is 12.7.
The Length (Total) is 1,3200.
The Barrel Length is 658.
The Action is Gas Operated.
The Rate of Fire is 600-800.
The Effective Firing Range is 1,500.
The Feed System is Belt feed: 100-, 200-, 250-round.

Here is Ammunition information for the PKP Pecheneg Russian 7.62mm General-Purpose Machine Gun of the System:
The Type is Rifle.
The Caliber is 7.62.
The Cartridge is 7.62×54mmR.
The Muzzle Velocity is 900.
The Basic Load is 1,000.

