This document describes the Nimr Hafeet Emirati 6x6 Armored Ambulance.

The Nimr Hafeet 6x6 Armored Ambulance is the medical version of the Nimr Hafeet 620.


The HAFEET Class of 6x6 vehicles provides a multipurpose platform for all military requirements at 13,000 kg capacity from utility vehicles to fully protected patrol vehicles. A universal 6x6 chassis is utilised for a common logistic basis. All vehicles in the HAFEET Class can be protected, and specific protected models are included for crew survivability with fully tested and certified cabins.

The main role of the Hafeet is to provide troops with logistical and utility support. Also there are some specialized versions of this vehicle. It is a purpose-designed military vehicle, which can operate in demanding conditions. It has good cross-country mobility and can travel over difficult terrain. The Hafeet has a payload capacity and size of a light truck. However due to its military nature the Hafeet can withstand heavy use or even abuse, far exceeding that of militarized commercial vehicles, or those based on commercial drivelines. Most versions of the Hafeet can carry loads with a maximum weight of 2 400-5 000 kg. This military vehicle can also tow trailers and light artillery pieces.

   There are 2-, 3- or 4-door versions of the Hafeet. All versions can be armored. The armored cab provides protection for the passengers against small arms fire and artillery shell splinters, mines and improvised explosive devices.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Algeria, Czech Republic, Jordan, Lebanon, Libya, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates.

Here is Variants information for the Nimr Hafeet Emirati 6x6 Armored Ambulance:
The Nimr Hafeet 620 is A logistical and utility vehicle with a 2-door cab and a larger cargo area at the rear. It can carry various supplies and can be also configured to carry shelters..
The Nimr Hafeet 620A is An armored version of the Hafeet 620..
The Nimr Hafeet 640A is An armored version with a double cab..
The Nimr Hafeet APC is Armored Personnel Carrier..
The Nimr Hafeet  AMB is Ambulance version..

Here is Dimensions information for the Nimr Hafeet Emirati 6x6 Armored Ambulance of the System:
The Length is 6.9.
The Width is 2.3.
The Height is 2.1.
The Weight, Empty is 8 - 11.5.
The Payload Capacity is 2.4-5.

Here is Automotive information for the Nimr Hafeet Emirati 6x6 Armored Ambulance:
The Engine Name is Cummins ISBe 300.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 296.
The Maximum Road Speed is 110.
The Maximum Range is 650.
The Gradient is 43.
The Side Slope is 30.
The Vertical Step is 0.4.
The Trench is 0.5.
The Fording is 1.
The Note #1 is This military vehicle can also tow trailers and light artillery pieces..
The Note #2 is Vehicle is fitted with a central tyre inflation system and run-flat tyres as standard. Also there is a recovery winch, which also comes as standard..

Here is System information for the Nimr Hafeet Emirati 6x6 Armored Ambulance of the Main Weapon System:
The Name is Caracal Assault Rifle 817.
The Alternative Designation is CAR 817.
The Date of Introduction is 2016.
The Country is United Arab Emirates.
The Manufactuer is Caracal International company.
The Caliber is 7.62.
The Length, Stock Extended is 884.
The Length, Stock Retracted is 802.
The Barrel Length is 406.
The Weight, Without Magazine is 3.3.
The Muzzle Velocity is 750.
The Cyclic Rate of Fire is 650-750.
The Practical Rate of Fire is 30-90.
The Magazine Capacity is 10, 20, 25 rounds.
The Range of Effective Fire is 600.
The Sight is Iron.

Here is Ammunition information for the Nimr Hafeet Emirati 6x6 Armored Ambulance of the Main Weapon System:
The Type is Rifle.
The Caliber is 7.62.
The Cartridge is 7.62x51 mm.

Here is Protection information for the Nimr Hafeet Emirati 6x6 Armored Ambulance:
The Armor is The Hafeet Class features variants with a high degree of protection to enhance survivability of the crew to attack from roadside IEDs, under-vehicle mines and ballistic threats. The Hafeet Class vehicles can be armored with different level of ballistic and blast protection depending on the variant and customer needs. The vehicles can receive standard ballistic protection up to STANAG level IV and standard blast protection up to STANAG level III (a,b)..
The Applique Armor is Available,  There are numerous versions of the Nimr Hafeet. Due to its modular nature the vehicle can be configured to suit various battlefield roles..
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is INA.
The NBC Protection is Optional.
The Smoke Equipment is Available, smoke grenade dischargers.
The Fire Suppression System is Yes.
The Protective Net is Protective net against anti-tank rocket launchers.
The Battle Field Management System is Available.

