This document describes the Shatun Russian 8x8 Amphibious Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).

The Shatun Russian 8x8 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) has been designed to carry out reconnaissance and patrol as well as act as a logistics mule to carry equipment and deliver goods.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is System information for the Shatun Russian 8x8 Amphibious Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Alternative Designation is Shatun.
The Type is Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).
The Manufacturer is Federal State Unitary Enterprise, Scientific-Research Institute of Applied Problems (FSUE "GosNIIPP").
The Configuration is 8x8.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Operator is The unit is controlled by a standard portable operator control unit..
The Lighting is 2 x LED lights are fitted to the front of the vehicle with one on either side..

Here is Dimensions information for the Shatun Russian 8x8 Amphibious Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Length is 3.35 m.
The Width is 1.85 m.
The Height is 1.65 m.
The Weight, Combat is 1,020 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Shatun Russian 8x8 Amphibious Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Internal combustion engine.
The Engine Power is 30 hp.
The Amphibious is The unit is completely amphibious..
The Maximum Land Speed is 20 km/h.
The Maximum Amphibious Speed is 5 km/h.
The Operating Range is 5 km Line of Sight (LoS).
The Endurance is The Shatun can endure up to 20 hours of continuous operation..

Here is Communications information for the Shatun Russian 8x8 Amphibious Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Note is Remote operation of the vehicle can be carried out at a range of 5 km line-of-sight (LoS)..

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Shatun Russian 8x8 Amphibious Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Note is Armament includes: a 7.62 mm PKT machine gun or three RPG-26 grenade launchers or an assault RGG-2. Two ‘Kornetʼ ATGMs can also be mounted..

Here is Protection information for the Shatun Russian 8x8 Amphibious Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is INA.

