This document describes the HJ-73 (Red Arrow-73) Chinese Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM).

The HJ-73 is an anti-tank missile of Chinese origin. While the first model was a direct copy of the Soviet 9M14M Malyutka anti-tank missile, subsequently new models were developed in China. Although considered obsolete, it remains in widespread use while it is cheap and simple to use compared to modern anti-tank-guided weapons.

The HJ-73 started out as a direct copy of the Soviet 9M14M and its associated 9S415 control box. Improved models incorporate some technology from the HJ-8 design program. Early model HJ-73 was a direct copy of the Soviet 9M14M. These suffer from the same drawbacks, such as 400 mm penetration and MCLOS guidance. The HJ-73 was continuously improved but is not as potent as the latest Serbian models. SACLOS guidance became available from the HJ-73B onward. All HJ-73 models have a maximum range of 3 km. The HJ-73 is used from either a manpack launcher or a vehicle installation. Early model manpack launchers were a direct copy of the Soviet control box. Later a domestic SACLOS control station was developed. Recently a lot of modern Chinese vehicles have been fitted with HJ-73C on either side of the turret.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Bulgaria, Cambodia, China, Cuba, Egypt, Ethiopia, Hungary, India, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Kyrgyzstan, Libya, Mozambique, Namibia, Poland, Romania, Russian Federation, Sudan, Syria, Uganda, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Zambia.

Here is Variants information for the HJ-73 (Red Arrow-73) Chinese Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The HJ-73B is USes a more advanced SACLOS interface and a better missile..
The HJ-73C is removes the joystick contract,
allowing the operator to keep the target in the crosshairs; adds thermal imaging; and
is also capable of firing 9M14 Malyutka / AT-3 Sagger missiles.
The HJ-73D is Syria, Venezuela, and South Sudan version of the HJ-73 Red Arrow.

Here is System information for the HJ-73 (Red Arrow-73) Chinese Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The Alternative Designation is HJ-73; Red Arrow 73.
The Manufacturer is NORINCO.
The Expected out of Service Date is 2040.
The Type is Short Range, Man Portable Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM) System.
The Family is The HJ-73 is based of the Russian AT-3 Sagger B (9M114M) Malyutka wire-guided MCLOS.
The Crew is 1.
The Displacement Time is INA.
The Emplacement Time is INA.
The Maximum Effective Range is 3.
The Air to Surface Capable is 220.
The Surface to Air Capable is 120.
The Add on Parts is No.
The Launcher, Man Portable is Yes.
The SACLOS Guidance Capability is Yes.
The Platforms is The HJ-73 is used from either a manpack launcher or a vehicle installation. Early model manpack launchers were a direct copy of the Soviet control box. Later a domestic SACLOS control station was developed. Recently a lot of modern Chinese vehicles have been fitted with HJ-73C on either side of the turret..
The Note #1 is The HJ-73 is the most widely used Antitank System in the People' s Liberation Army..
The Note #2 is The HJ-73 Red Arrow was built to replace the AT-3 Sagger..

Here is Dimensions information for the HJ-73 (Red Arrow-73) Chinese Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The Length is 0.85.
The Diameter is 125.
The Missile Weight at Launch is 11.

Here is Automotive information for the HJ-73 (Red Arrow-73) Chinese Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The Prime Mover Required is No.
The Man Portable is Yes.
The Infantry Fighting Vehicle Mount is Capable.
The Armored Personnel Carrier Mount is Capable.
The Attack Helicopters Mount is Capable.

Here is Ammunition (Option 1) information for the HJ-73 (Red Arrow-73) Chinese Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM) of the Armament and Ammunition:
The Name is HEAT Projectile.
The Type is 125 mm.
The Muzzle Velocity is 115.
The Armor Penetration is Yes.
The Fuzing System is 9E212.

Here is Fire Control information for the HJ-73 (Red Arrow-73) Chinese Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is INA.
The Guidance System is Manual Command Line-Of-Sight (MCLOS).
The Direct Fire is Yes.

Here is Protection information for the HJ-73 (Red Arrow-73) Chinese Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The Countermeasures is Immune to Electronic Countermeasures..

