This document describes the HMNZS Canterbury New Zealand Multirole Strategic Sealift Vessel.

HMNZS Canterbury is a multi-role vessel (MRV) of the Royal New Zealand Navy. She was commissioned in June 2007, and is the second ship of the Royal New Zealand Navy to carry the name. She is also New Zealand's first purpose-built strategic sealift ship.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: New Zealand.

Here is Variants information for the HMNZS Canterbury New Zealand Multirole Strategic Sealift Vessel:
The No variants of this vessel is .

Here is System information for the HMNZS Canterbury New Zealand Multirole Strategic Sealift Vessel:
The Alternative Designation is HMNZS Canterbury (L421).
The Type is Strategic Multirole Vessel.
The Builder is Merwede Shipyards, Netherlands; fitted out by Tenix Pty Ltd.
The Crew is Core personnel: 53 naval, 10 air force, 7 army; Others: 35 trainees, 4 government agents.
The Cargo Capacity is 1,451 sq m (15,620 sq ft). Cargo can be unloaded via two ramps, either from the starboard side or the stern..
The Cargo Capability is Sample loadout: 14 Light Operational Vehicles, 16 light armored vehicles, 7 medium-lift trucks, 2 ambulances, 2 flatbed trucks, 7 vehicle trailers, 2 rough terrain forklifts, 4 ATV-type vehicles and up to 33 x Twenty-foot Equivalent Unit (TEU) containers..
The Crane is 2 x 60-ton cranes.
The Refueling Capability is INA.
The Medical Facility is The Canterbury has a five-bed hospital ward, a two-bed sickbay, an operating room, a medical laboratory and a morgue..
The Hazardous Material Loadout is The ship is equipped to embark up to eight containers of ammunition and up to two with hazardous materials..

Here is Dimensions information for the HMNZS Canterbury New Zealand Multirole Strategic Sealift Vessel:
The Length is 131.0 m.
The Beam is 23.4 m.
The Draft is 5.4 m.
The Displacement, Standard is INA.
The Displacement, Full Load is 9,000 tons.

Here is Propulsion System information for the HMNZS Canterbury New Zealand Multirole Strategic Sealift Vessel:
The Engine Name is 2 × Wartsila engines.
The Engine Type is CODADE (combined diesel and diesel-electric).
The Engine Power is 45 MW.
The Bow Thruster is 2.
The Auxiliary Engines is 3 x auxiliary diesel engines.
The Generator is INA.
The Maximum Range is 8,000 nmi (15,000 km).
The Cruising Speed is 16 kn (30 km/h).

Here is Communications information for the HMNZS Canterbury New Zealand Multirole Strategic Sealift Vessel:
The Communications Suite is L3Harris Advanced, Adaptive Communication System.
The HF/VHF/UHF is Receivers available for HF/VHF/UHF bands.
The Satellite Communications is Receivers available (1Ghz - 30 Ghz).
The INMARSAT is Yes, available.

Here is Gun Weapon System #1 information for the HMNZS Canterbury New Zealand Multirole Strategic Sealift Vessel of the Gun Weapon Systems:
The Name is 1 x M242 Bushmaster.
The Type is Autocannon.
The Caliber is 25 mm.
The Crew is 2-3.
The Barrel Length is 2,175 mm.
The Height (Gun Mount and Weapon Assembly) is INA.
The Operation is Remotely operated gun mount with datalink to ship's Combat Management System (CMS).
The Barrels is Single barrel (progressive RH parabolic twist).
The Fire Control is Vistar Electro-Optical and S & X Band Radar targeting.
The Elevation is INA.
The Traverse is INA.
The Rate of Fire is 200 rpm (Sustained), 500 rpm (Cyclic).
The Muzzle Velocity is 1,100 m/s.
The Maximum Firing Range is 6,800 m.
The Effective Firing Range is 3,000 m.

Here is Gun Weapon Systems #1 Ammunition information for the HMNZS Canterbury New Zealand Multirole Strategic Sealift Vessel of the Gun Weapon Systems:
The Type is Rifle.
The Caliber is 25 mm.
The Shell is Naval: Armor-piercing tungsten penetrator rounds with discarding sabots; Land: High-Explosive Incendiary tracer, self-destruct..
The Basic Load is INA.

Here is Gun Weapon System #2 information for the HMNZS Canterbury New Zealand Multirole Strategic Sealift Vessel of the Gun Weapon Systems:
The Name is M2HB QCB .50 caliber Browning Machine Gun.
The Weapon Station Type is Manned.
The Machine Gun Type is Heavy Machine Gun.
The Caliber is 12.7 mm.
The Length is 1,654 mm.
The Weight is 38 kg.
The On Mount EO System is INA.
The Elevation is INA.
The Traverse is INA.
The Stabilized Accuracy is Manual, on pivot mounts.
The Ballistic Computer is No.

Here is Gun Weapon Systems #2 Ammunition information for the HMNZS Canterbury New Zealand Multirole Strategic Sealift Vessel of the Gun Weapon Systems:
The Type is Rifle.
The Caliber is 12.7mm.
The Cartridge is 12.7×99mm NATO.
The Basic Load is On-mount ammunition: up to 230 rounds.

Here is Boats and Landing Craft information for the HMNZS Canterbury New Zealand Multirole Strategic Sealift Vessel:
The Medium Landing Craft is Carries 2 x Landing Craft. Offloads craft with onboard crane...
The Rigid-Hulled Inflatable Boat (RHIB) is Carries 2 x RHIBs.
The Special Forces Variant Rigid-Hulled Inflatable Boat (RHIB) is Carries 2 x SF RHIBs..

Here is Aviation Facilities information for the HMNZS Canterbury New Zealand Multirole Strategic Sealift Vessel:
The Flight Operations is Helicopter Deck (located at stern of the ship). The hangar facility features four storage spots and one maintenance spot for helicopters. The aviation spaces (Onboard hanger) are equipped with AFFF sprinkler fire protection..
The Aircraft is 2 × SH-2G Seasprite helicopters.  Also onboard are 4 × NH90 helicopters..

Here is Radar Systems information for the HMNZS Canterbury New Zealand Multirole Strategic Sealift Vessel:
The Navigation Radar is S & X band navigation radars..
The Warlock HF DF is Direction-finding system (Locates HF Emitters).

Here is Sonar System information for the HMNZS Canterbury New Zealand Multirole Strategic Sealift Vessel:
The Sonar is INA.

Here is Protection information for the HMNZS Canterbury New Zealand Multirole Strategic Sealift Vessel:
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Countermeasures is INA.
The NBC Water Washdown System is Yes.

