This document describes the M1127 (Stryker RV) American Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle.

The M1127 Stryker Reconnaissance Vehicle is part of a family of eight-wheeled armored fighting vehicles derived from the Canadian LAV III. Stryker vehicles are produced by General Dynamics Land Systems for the United States Army. It has 4-wheel drive (8×4) and can be switched to all-wheel drive (8×8). The RV provides a platform to perform reconnaissance and surveillance operations.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: CFE Treaty, United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the M1127 (Stryker RV) American Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The M1126 ICV is Armored personnel carrier version that provides protected transport for 2 crew and a 9 man infantry squad..
The M1127 (RV) is Reconnaissance Vehicle. Used by RSTA (Reconnaissance, Surveillance, and Target Acquisition) Squadrons and battalion scouts, moving throughout the battlefield to gather and transmit real-time intelligence/surveillance for situational awareness.
The M1128 (MGS) is Mobile Gun System. Version armed with a 105 mm M68A1 rifled cannon (M68A1E4).
The M1129 (MC) is Mortar Carrier. armed with Soltam 120 mm Mortar supports infantry with screening obscurants, suppressive forces and on-call supporting fires (HE, illumination, IR illumination, smoke, precision-guided, and DPICM cluster bombs)..
The M1130 (CV) is Command Vehicle, provides commanders with communication, data, and control functions to analyze and prepare information for combat missions; can also link to aircraft antenna/power for planning missions..
The M1131 (FSV) is Fire Support Vehicle is organic to maneuver companies and provides surveillance and communications (4 secure combat radio nets), with target acquisition identification tracking, the designation being transmitted automatically to the shooting units..
The M1132 (ESV) is Engineer Squad Vehicle (ESV) provides mobility and limited counter mobility support. Integrated into the ESV are obstacle neutralization and lane marking systems and mine detection devices..
The M1133 (MEV) is Medical Evacuation Vehicle (MEV) is the Battalion Aid Station for brigade units, providing treatment for serious injury and advanced trauma..
The M1134 (ATGM) is Anti-Tank Guided Missile Vehicle is armed with the TOW missile to reinforce the brigade's infantry and reconnaissance, providing long-range antitank fires against armor beyond tank gun effective range..
The M1135 (NBC RV) is Nuclear, Biological, Chemical Reconnaissance Vehicle automatically integrates contamination information from detectors with input from navigation and meteorological systems and transmits digital NBC warning messages to warn follow-on forces..

Here is System information for the M1127 (Stryker RV) American Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Alternative Designation is M1127 Stryker RV.
The Type is 8x8 Wheeled Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle.
The Manufacturer is General Dynamic Land Systems, USA and Canada.
The Family is Stryker.
The Configuration is The Stryker is based on the LAV III light armored vehicle, which in turn was based on the LAV-25 series.

The vehicle comes in several variants with a common engine, transmission, hydraulics, wheels, tires, differentials and transfer case..
The Crew is 2 Personnel.
The Passenger Capacity is 7 Personnel (Dismounted Scouts).

Here is Dimensions information for the M1127 (Stryker RV) American Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Length is 6.95.
The Width is 2.72.
The Height is 2.64.
The Weight, Combat is 17,525.
The Ground Pressure is 2.05 kg / square centimeter.

Here is Automotive information for the M1127 (Stryker RV) American Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Engine Name is Caterpillar C7.
The Engine Type is 7.2-liter Turbo Diesel.
The Engine Power is 350.
The Cruising Range is 500.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 100.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.
The Fording Depth is 1.3.

Here is Mission System information for the M1127 (Stryker RV) American Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Forward Observation System is AN/TAS-8.
The Type is Long-Range Advanced Scout Surveillance System (LRAS3).
The Description is The LRAS3 provides a real-time acquisition, target detection, recognition, identification and long-distance target range-finding capability..
The Optics is Yes, long-range common aperture reflective optics.
The Thermals is Yes, HTO SG-FLIR.
The Camera is Color Daylight System.
The Laser Range Finder is Yes.
The Long Range Target Detector is Yes.
The System Interface is MIL-STD-1553, RS-170, compressed digital video port.
The Electronic Zoom is Yes (2x and 4x).

Here is Heavy Machine Gun (Option 1) information for the M1127 (Stryker RV) American Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle of the Weapon Systems:
The Name is M2 Browning .50 Caliber Machine Gun.
The Type is Heavy Machine Gun.
The Caliber is 12.7mm.
The Quantity is 1.
The Length is 1,654 mm.
The Barrel Length is 1,143 mm.
The Action is Short, Recoil-Operated.
The Rate of Fire is 450 - 600 rds/min.
The Maximum Effective Firing Range is 1,800 m.
The Feed System is Belt-Fed.

Here is Grenade Launcher (Option 2) information for the M1127 (Stryker RV) American Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle of the Weapon Systems:
The Name is MK-19 Grenade Launcher.
The Type is Automatic Grenade Launcher.
The Caliber is 40 mm.
The Length is 1,090 mm.
The Barrel Length is 413 mm.
The Action is Blowback (empty without accessories).
The Rate of Fire is 360–390 rds/min (cyclic) 40 rds/min (sustained) 60 rds/min (rapid).
The Maximum Effective Firing Range is 1,500 m.
The Feed System is 32 or 48 (count) Grenade Belt.

Here is Protection information for the M1127 (Stryker RV) American Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Hull Armor is Constructed from high-hardness steel which offers a basic level of protection against 14.5mm rounds on the frontal arc, and all-around protection against 7.62mm ball ammunition..
The Applique Armor is Equipped with bolt-on ceramic armor which offers all-around protection against 14.5mm, armor-piercing ammunition, and artillery fragments from 152mm rounds..
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is Yes.
The Mine Clearing is Not on this variant. The Engineer Squad Vehicle (ESV) variant provides mobility and limited counter mobility support. Integrated into the ESV are obstacle neutralization and lane marking systems and mine detection devices..
The Self-Entrenching Blade is INA.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is Yes.
The Hull Protection is Yes, top right side of hull features ballistic glass shield, provides limited protection from small arms..

Here is Command & Control information for the M1127 (Stryker RV) American Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Battle Management System is FBCB2 (Force XXI battle command brigade and below).
The Digital is Yes, Utilizes digital communications system that allows comms between vehicles and higher headquarters through text messaging and a map network..

