This document describes the MP-DF 100 Israeli Manpack DF/COMINT system.

Designed for use by ground forces gathering intelligence in the field, the MP-DF 100 manpack DF/COMINT system is used for interception and direction finding on a range of frequencies in the band from 25 to 3,000 MHz. Performing wide-spectrum scanning, the MP-DF 100 detects, locates and monitors signals of interest from specific locations.

The MP-DF 100 can be configured to operate in two main modes: hand-held or manpack. These modes are differentiated by the size and type of their antennas.

The hand-held mode, which uses a 90° front sector antenna and sum-null DF, enables soldiers to locate nearby emitters by advancing in the emitter's general direction and aiming the sensor in the direction of the emitter (homing mode).

The manpack mode, which uses two types of small tripod-mounted antennas and interferometer-based DF, enables mapping of the direction and frequency of existing emitters in the area. This configuration, which includes GPS capabilities integrated in a PDA, can be carried in a specially-designed vest or backpack, and used as a standalone sensor or remotely controlled.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Israel.

Here is MP-DF 100,  Hand-Held Mode information for the MP-DF 100 Israeli Manpack DF/COMINT system of the System:
The Frequency Range is 25-3,000.
The Weight is 14 kg excl vest.
The Power Consumption is 40 W (excl PDA).
The SHock and Vibration is MIL-STD-810 (except PDA).
The Antenna TYpe is 90 deg front sector (homing).
The DF Method is sum-null comparison.
The Bandwidth Resolution is 25.
The Max Signal at Input (no damage) is +20.

Here is MP-DF 100,  Manpack Mode information for the MP-DF 100 Israeli Manpack DF/COMINT system of the System:
The Frequency Range is 25-3,000.
The Weight is 20 kg excl vest.
The Power Consumption is 40 W (excl PDA).
The Shock and Vibration is MIL-STD-810 (except PDA).
The Antenna Type is 360 deg and +15 Elevation.
The DF Method is Interferometer.
The Accuracy is typ 4° RMS @ SNR IF=10 dB.
The Resolution is 0.5.
The Instantaneous Bandwidth is 2 x 2.
The Max Input Signal (no damage): is +20.
The Software Interface is wireless Bluetooth networking.
The Display is activity map (signal level vs frequency graph or list); DF map vs frequency (DOA vs frequency, strip graph or list); DF activity vs time at specified frequency (for net radio).

