This document describes the Vityaz DT-30PM Russian All Terrain Carrier.

The 30PM series of articulated tracked vehicles function is to carry munitions, military equipment, and personnel through difficult terrain and weather conditions. It has excellent offroad capabilities in any season, including swamps, virgin snow, unimproved dirt roads and water obstacles throughout Russia’s Siberia and far east districts. These are two unit transport vehicles with all four tracks driving.

Because of low ground pressure, vehicle is theoretically immune to certain types of at mines. ATVs are indispensable as recovery vehicles, since they have a high pull ratio (approximately 500 kn for the DT-30PM) and can approach a stuck or damaged vehicle from any direction in bad road conditions. The DT-30PM transporters are very efficient as part of search and rescue teams operating in extreme conditions (bad roads, floods, snow-drifts, land and snow slides and large-scale destruction) when it is necessary to evacuate people, animals, and various cargoes up to 30 ton by weight, or transport rescue teams, medical personnel, various equipment and food to the affected area.

The DT-30PM has a fully enclosed forward control cab, which provides seating for driver and four passengers. Engine compartment is located behind the cab. The rear unit can accommodate a variety of bodies. In some cases the rear unit can vary considerably from the front. This all-terrain tracked transporter is fully amphibious. On water it is propelled by its tracks.

Owing to their unique design, the Vityaz family of ATVs are capable of operating in conditions impossible for other all-terrain vehicles, for example:
•	Amphibious return to a mother ship
•	Off-road movement with one unit disabled or without one, or even without both tracks of one of the units
•	Negotiating ditches and clefts up to 4.0 m wide
•	Unloading of a ship offshore if it cannot come close to waterfront (i.e. in the Arctic and Antarctic regions, or in flooded regions, etc.); negotiating waterways in severe ice conditions
•	Operation in mountains up to an altitude of 4,000 m

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is Variants information for the Vityaz DT-30PM Russian All Terrain Carrier:
The DT-30PMNE1 is Outfitted with a hydraulic excavator. To facilitate work of the excavator the carrier features three hydraulically-operated outriggers, in an amphibious version the second section is equipped with quick-detachable drop sides. Moreover the front section has enclosed sealed body intended for transportation of up to 12 tons of equipment..
The DT-30PK8-1 is Universal drilling system was built designated for drilling and construction-and-assembly works on scattered sites on soils with low bearing capacity. The system is fitted with universal drilling equipment suitable for boring wells in soils of I-IV categories (including permafrost soils, as well as soils highly saturated and those containing quick sands and lenses)..
The DT-30PMN is Fitted with articulated carrier with crane equipment. The crane system is designated KS-5771. The three-unit telescopic boom made of high-resistance steel provides vast crane operations envelope (engaged zone is 960 sq .m) and great hoisting height (up to 25 m)..
The Weapons Carrier is The rear compartment can be configured to mount surface-to-air missiles, multiple launch rocket systems, heavy mortars, and tube artillery. In 2017, photographs were taken of DT-30PM's outfitted with the Pantsir weapon station and Tor-M2 air defense missile systems..

Here is Dimensions information for the Vityaz DT-30PM Russian All Terrain Carrier of the System:
The Height, Overall is 3.3.
The Width, Overall is 3.1.
The Length, Overall is 16.15.
The Width, Tracks is 1.1.

Here is Automotive information for the Vityaz DT-30PM Russian All Terrain Carrier:
The Engine Power is 800.
The Range, Cruising is 700.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 43.
The Speed, Maximum Swim is 5.
The Fording Depth is 1.2.
The Engine Name is YaMZ-847.10.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Turning Radius is 17.3.
The Gradient is 33 (est).
The Trench is 4.5.
The Vertical Step is 1.2.
The Angle of Approach is 30.
The Side Slope is 15.
The Temperature Range is -45C to +40C.

