This document describes the Chloroacetophenone: Riot Control / Tear Agent.

Phenacyl chloride, also commonly known as chloroacetophenone, is a substituted acetophenone. It is a useful building block in organic chemistry. Apart from that, it has been historically used as a riot control agent, where it is designated CN. It should not be confused with cyanide, another agent used in chemical warfare.

Because of its significantly greater toxicity, it has largely been supplanted by CS gas. Even though CN is still supplied to paramilitary and police forces in a small pressurized aerosol known as “Mace” or tear gas, its use is falling as pepper spray both works and disperses more quickly than CN and is less toxic than CN. 

The term "Mace" came into being because it was the brand-name invented by one of the first American manufacturers of CN aerosol sprays. Subsequently, in the United States, Mace became synonymous with tear-gas sprays in the same way that Kleenex has become strongly associated with facial tissues (a phenomenon known as a genericized trademark).

Like CS gas, this compound irritates the mucous membranes (oral, nasal, conjunctival and tracheobronchial). Sometimes it can give rise to more generalized reactions such as syncope, temporary loss of balance and orientation.[6] More rarely, cutaneous irritating outbreaks have been observed and allergic contact permanent dermatitis.
 
At high concentrations, CN may cause corneal epithelial damage and chemosis. It has also accounted for at least five deaths, which have resulted from pulmonary injury and/or asphyxia.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: United States of America.

Here is System information for the Chloroacetophenone: Riot Control / Tear Agent:
The Alternative Designations is 2-Chloro-1-phenylethanone, 2-Chloroacetophenone, alpha-Chloroacetophenone, Chemical mace, Chloromethyl phenyl ketone, 
Phenyl chloromethylketone, Tear gas.
The Military designation is CN.
The Chemical abstracts service number is 532-27-4.
The UN Number is 1697.
The Chemical Formula is C8H7ClO.
The Appearance is Gas.
The Color is Gray, white, or colorless.
The Description type agent is Riot Control/Tear Agent.
The Description is Military and law enforcement use CN for riot control..
The Lethality is Yes.
The Nonpersistent is Yes.
The Flammability* is 1.
The Health* is 2.
The Instability/reactivity* is 0.
The Flashpoint° (F) is 244.
The Boiling Point ° (F) is 472-473.

Here is Routes of Exposure information for the Chloroacetophenone: Riot Control / Tear Agent:
The Inhalation is Yes.
The Ingestion is Yes.
The Skin/eye is Yes.

Here is Methods of Dissemination information for the Chloroacetophenone: Riot Control / Tear Agent:
The Indoor air is Yes.
The Water is Yes.
The Outdoor air is Yes.
The Agricultural is Possible.
The Historic usage* is Yes.

