This document describes the Mi-4 (Hound) Russian Transport Helicopter.

The Mil Mi-4 (USAF/DoD reporting name "Type 36", NATO reporting name "Hound") is a Soviet transport helicopter that served in both military and civilian roles.

The Mi-4 was designed in response to the American H-19 Chickasaw and the deployment of U.S. helicopters during the Korean War. While the Mi-4 strongly resembles the H-19 Chickasaw in general layout, including the innovative engine position in front of the cockpit, it is a larger helicopter, able to lift more weight and built-in larger numbers. The first model entered service in 1953. The helicopter was first displayed to the outside world in 1952 at the Soviet Aviation Day in Tushino Airfield.

One Mi-4 was built with a jettisonable rotor. It served as an experimental vehicle for future pilots' means of safety and ejection designs

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Bangladesh, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Cuba, Egypt, Finland, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Laos (People's Democratic Republic), Mali, Mongolia, North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Poland, Romania, Russian Federation, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Viet Nam, Yemen.

Here is Variants information for the Mi-4 (Hound) Russian Transport Helicopter:
The Variants is V-12
Prototype. Designation reused for the Mi-12.
Mi-4 (NATO – Hound-A)
Basic production version.
Mi-4A
Assault transport helicopter.
Mi-4AV
Armed versions based on the Mi-4A. V for Vooruzhenniy (Armed). Mi-4A with additional armament. Modification of 1967 had weapons complex K-4V, included four 9М17М ATGM "Phalanga" and 96 57-mm NAR S-5M in six blocks UB-16-57U (or six 100-kg bombs or four 250-kg bombs or tanks with an incendiary substance); 185 helicopters were converted to Mi-4AV.
Mi-4GF
Factory designation for demilitarised Mi-4 for use in the Civil Air Fleet.
Mi-4L Lyukes
Six-seat VIP transport version, sometimes converted into an air ambulance helicopter.
Mi-4VL
Fire-fighting version of Mi-4L.
Mi-4M (NATO – Hound-C)
Anti-submarine warfare helicopter with searching radar station SPRS-1 ("Kurs-M"), hydroacoustic station "Baku", additional fuel tank and rescue boat with operator in under-fuselage gun turret.
Mi-4ME
Export modification of Mi-4M.
Mi-4VM
Slightly modified version of Mi-4M, differed by some avionics system.
Mi-4MR
Upgraded version of Mi-4VM with the searching radar station "Rubin-V" instead of "Kurs-M".
Mi-4P / Mi-4VP
Civil transport helicopter, with accommodation for between 8 and 11 passengers, plus eight stretchers and a medical attendant for air ambulance duties.
Mi-4PL (NATO – Hound-B)
Anti-submarine warfare helicopter.
Mi-4PS
SAR version.
Mi-4S Salon
VIP transport helicopter.
Mi-4Skh
Multi-role agricultural helicopter, with a large chemical container in the main cabin. Also used as a fire-fighting helicopter.
Mi-4T
Major military production version, equipped with a large diameter main rotor and bulged windows.
Mi-4VM (VM-12)
Anti-submarine warfare helicopter.
Mi-4BT
Minesweeper with floats.
Mi-4RI
Mi-4M equipped with the Rion experimental sonar.
Mi-4MT
Torpedo-carrying ASW attack (killer) aircraft derived from Mi-4M.
Mi-4MU
Attack helicopter.
Mi-4MO
Search helicopter with Oka sonar.
Mi-4MS
Search helicopter with Soora infra-red sensor.
Mi-4FV (Mi-4KV)
Photographic and guidance helicopter.
Mi-4Schch
"Polar version" of Mi-4FV for working at the Soviet Arctic and Antarctic research stations.
Mi-4SP
Special rescue modification.
Mi-4PG
Experimental version equipped with an external load sling system.
Mi-4SV
Mi-4 with improved heat insulation for working in the Far North.
Mi-4N "Filin" (Horned owl)
Experimental reconnaissance version intended for night-time use.
Mi-4KK (Mi-4VKP)
Mobile command post.
Mi-4KU (Mi-4VPU)
Mobile command post for controlling Air Force units.
Mi-4U
Target-designator version carrying the Oospekh (Success) system.
Mi-4GR
Mi-4 fitted with Grebeshok-3 (Haircomb-3) wide-range panoramic detection and relay radar.
Mi-4TARK
TV-equipped artillery reconnaissance and spotting helicopter.
Mi-4MK (Mi-4PP)
ECM version.
Mi-4UM
Radio-controlled target drone version.
Harbin Z-5
Chinese military transport helicopter. Chinese production version.
Harbin Z-6
Prototype turbine powered version of the Z-5, no production undertaken.
Xuanfeng
Chinese civil transport helicopter. Chinese production version..

Here is System information for the Mi-4 (Hound) Russian Transport Helicopter:
The Alternative Designation is Mil Mi-4; Type 36; NATO: Hound.
The Type is Transport Helicopter.
The Manufacturer is Mil Moscow Helicopter Plant.
The Crew is 1 or 2.
The Passengers is 16 troops.
The Blades, Main Rotor is 4.
The Blades, Tail Rotor is 3.
The Number of Engines is 1.
The Number of Hard Points is INA.

Here is Dimensions information for the Mi-4 (Hound) Russian Transport Helicopter:
The Length is 16.8 m.
The Width is INA.
The Height is 4.4 m.
The Main Rotor Diameter is 21 m.
The Main Rotor Area is 346.4 m2.
The Cargo Capacity is 1,600 kg  of cargo.
The Weight, Empty is 5,100 kg.
The Weight, Gross is 7,150 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Mi-4 (Hound) Russian Transport Helicopter:
The Engine Name is 1 × Shvetsov ASh-82V.
The Engine Type is 14-cylinder air-cooled radial piston engine.
The Engine Power is 1,680.
The Maximum Speed is 185 km/h.
The Range is 500 km.
The Service Ceiling is 5,500 m.
The Disk Loading is 41 kg/m2.

Here is Fire Control and Avionics information for the Mi-4 (Hound) Russian Transport Helicopter:
The Fire Control System Type is INA.
The Fire Control Radar is INA.
The Navigation Radar is INA.
The Laser Designator is INA.

Here is Protection information for the Mi-4 (Hound) Russian Transport Helicopter:
The Stealth Properties is None.
The Add on Armor is INA.
The Heat Signature Reduction is INA.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The EW Counter Measures/CCM is INA.
The Counter Measures (Chaff/Flares) is INA.

