This document describes the Naze'at 6-H Iranian Close-Range Ballistic Missile.

Hezbollah Proliferation. The Naze'at 6-H is an Iranian close-range ballistic missile (some classify it as rocket artillery) with a range of about 100 km.  Like Iran's similarly shaped Zelzal rockets, Naze'at rockets do not have a guidance system.  The Naze'at 6-H is also widely known without the -H suffix, as the Naze'at 6.

The Naze'at is launched from a transporter erector launcher (TEL) and carries a conventional warhead.  It may be capable of carrying a chemical or biological warhead as well. A complete Naze'at system includes a TEL and communications vans, meteorological vans, and a GPS system for surveying the launch site. The reliability and accuracy of Naze'at rockets is assessed as poor as they have no guidance system.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Iran (Islamic Republic of), Non-State Actors.

Here is Variants information for the Naze'at 6-H Iranian Close-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Naze'at 10-H is Improved version with a longer range rocket..

Here is Dimensions (Chassis) information for the Naze'at 6-H Iranian Close-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Weight, Combat is INA.
The Ground Pressure is INA.

Here is Automotive (Chassis) information for the Naze'at 6-H Iranian Close-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is INA.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Cruising Range is INA.
The Speed, Maximum Road is INA.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is INA.
The Fording Depth is INA.

Here is Communications information for the Naze'at 6-H Iranian Close-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Primary is INA.

Here is Transporter, Erector, Launcher information for the Naze'at 6-H Iranian Close-Range Ballistic Missile of the Missile System:
The Name is INA.
The Type is Transporter erector launcher.
The Fire on the Move is No.

Here is Missile information for the Naze'at 6-H Iranian Close-Range Ballistic Missile of the Missile System:
The Name is Naze'at 6-H rocket.
The Type is SS Ballistic Missile / Long-Range Artillery Rocket.
The Length is 6,290.
The Diameter is 356.
The Initial Weight is 960.
The Propellant Weight is 420.
The Propellant Type is Solid Hydroxyl-terminated polybutadiene.
The Warhead Weight is 130.
The Maximum Range is 100.
The Minimum Range is 80.
The CEP is 500-1000 m.
The Average Action Time is 9 seconds.
The Specific Impulse is 240 seconds.
The Service Life is 7 Years.
The Speed is Mach 4-5.

Here is Fire Control information for the Naze'at 6-H Iranian Close-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Note is No Guidance System however, TELs use GPS to set the launch site.

Here is Protection information for the Naze'at 6-H Iranian Close-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Note (1) is The TEL has no active or passive protection systems other than NBC.
The Note (2) is The rocket has no counter measures.

