This document describes the SLC-2E Chinese Artillery Locating Radar.

The SLC-2 Radar is a Chinese active electronically scanned array counter-battery radar designed to locate hostile artillery, rocket and ground-to-ground missile launchers immediately after firing, and to support friendly artillery by guiding counter-battery fire.
As Chinese capability in microelectronics matured, an updated version of passive phased array Type 373 radar is developed, designated as SLC-2. This is a fully solid-state, highly digitized version that adopts planar active phased array antenna.
In addition it is equipped with optical infrared system and sound measuring systems that enable to discover enemy’s stealth attack.
In contrast to the original model, the 2E variant is not only designed to support counter-battery missions against hostile artillery, rockets, and surface-to-surface missile systems, but also detect airborne threats with a dedicated air defense mode.
A complete SLC-2E system comprises a control cabin with associated processing equipment, on-board power supply, and the radar transmitter. 
Bangladesh Bought two in 2012.  Pakistan also operates significant number of SLC-2 Radar.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Bangladesh, China, Pakistan.

Here is System information for the SLC-2E Chinese Artillery Locating Radar:
The Alternative Designation is NA.
The Crew is INA.
The Chassis is 6×6 Beiben truck chassis / Dongfeng EQ2102 3.5 ton truck.

Here is Dimensions information for the SLC-2E Chinese Artillery Locating Radar:
The Height is 3.2 in travel mode.
The Length is 7.5.
The Width is 2.5.
The Weight is INA.

Here is Automotive (Dongfeng EQ2102 3.5 ton truck) information for the SLC-2E Chinese Artillery Locating Radar:
The Engine Name is Dongfeng Diesel.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 160.
The Range, Cruising is 550.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 90.
The Speed, Cross Country is INA.
The Speed, Maximum Swim is NA.
The Fording Depth is 1.

Here is Radar information for the SLC-2E Chinese Artillery Locating Radar:
The Detection Range, Artillery is 35.
The Detection Range, Rockets is 50.
The Detection Range, Mortars is Range not available however, a source reports that the SLC-2E is successful at detecting mortar rounds at a rate of 80%.
The Peak Power is 45.
The Band is S.
The CEP for Targets Beyond 10km is 35% of range.
The CEP for Targets Within 10km is 35m.
The Clutter Improvement Factor is 55 dB.
The Noise is 3 dB.
The Other Features is Active phased array antenna with electronic scanning both in azimuth and elevation.
Sophisticated computer-controlled digital signal processing.
Comprehensive online or offline BITE.
Automatic/manual height correction with digital/video map.
Various effective ECCM.
Tracking while scanning..

Here is Radio information for the SLC-2E Chinese Artillery Locating Radar of the Communications:
The Name is INA.

Here is Protection information for the SLC-2E Chinese Artillery Locating Radar:
The Note is The SLC-2E offers no protection to the crew or system.

