This document describes the Alexander Anishchenko-Class (Project 19920 Class) Russian Hydrographic Survey Vessel.

Alexander Anishchenko-Class (Project 19920 Class) Russian Hydrographic Survey Vessel, a large hydrographic survey boat designed and built by OJSC Vympel Shipyard, performs hydrographic and navigation survey works for the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation.

The large survey boat is intended to perform buoy laying, a survey of inshore waters and maintenance works. It can also carry out other missions such as inspection, maintenance, recharge, and repair of onshore and floating navigational equipment. It is further used to transport cargo, special-purpose equipment, and personnel to unprepared shores.

Alexander Anishchenko-Class (Project 19920 Class) Russian Hydrographic Survey Vessel, features a single deck with a continuous main deck and long forecastle. The Middle section of the boathouses the deckhouse and the engine room. The ship’s bow stem is raked forward to provide a comfortable ride, while its stern has a transom shape.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is Variants information for the Alexander Anishchenko-Class (Project 19920 Class) Russian Hydrographic Survey Vessel:
The BGK-2090 is Commissioned: 2008
Status: Active
Fleet: Caspian Flotilla.
The BGK-2148 is Commissioned: 2012
Status: Active
Fleet: Northern Fleet.
The BGK-2149 is Commissioned: 2015
Status: Active
Fleet: Northern Fleet.
The BGK-2150 is Commissioned: 2016
Status: Active
Fleet: Black Sea Fleet.
The BGK-2154 is Commissioned: 2016
Status: Active
Fleet: Northern Fleet.
The Alexander Makorta is Commissioned: 2020
Status: Active
Fleet: Northern Fleet.

Here is System information for the Alexander Anishchenko-Class (Project 19920 Class) Russian Hydrographic Survey Vessel:
The Alternative Designation is Alexander Anishchenko-Class; Project 19920 Class.
The Type is Hydrographic Survey Vessel.
The Builder is OJSC Vympel Shipyard.
The Crew is 11.
The Note is The large survey boat is intended to perform buoy laying, survey of inshore waters and maintenance works. It can also carry out other missions such as inspection, maintenance, recharge and repair of onshore and floating navigational equipment. It is further used to transport cargo, special-purpose equipment and personnel to unprepared shores..

Here is Dimensions information for the Alexander Anishchenko-Class (Project 19920 Class) Russian Hydrographic Survey Vessel:
The Length is 36.44 m.
The Beam is 7.8 m.
The Draft is 2.1 m.
The Displacement, Standard is 279 tons.
The Displacement, Full Load is 320 tons.

Here is Propulsion System information for the Alexander Anishchenko-Class (Project 19920 Class) Russian Hydrographic Survey Vessel:
The Engine Name is 2 x Deutz BF6M 1015MC.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 2 x 337 hp.
The Azimuth Thrusters is 2 x Azimuth Thrusters.
The Bow Thruster is 1 x Bow Thruster.
The Generators is 2 x 80 kW DGA-80-VA2-MPS diesel-generators, or 2 x 80 kW DGA-80-VA3-MPS diesel-generators..
The Maximum Range is 1000 nmi at 11 knots.
The Maximum Speed is 11.5 knots.
The Endurance is 10 days.

Here is Communications information for the Alexander Anishchenko-Class (Project 19920 Class) Russian Hydrographic Survey Vessel:
The Note is Communications systems aboard the watercraft include Inmarsat-C two-way packet data service system, transponder, VHF and HF/MF radio systems, portable VHF radio telephones and a satellite EPIRB with radar transponder..

Here is Hydrographic Survey Equipment information for the Alexander Anishchenko-Class (Project 19920 Class) Russian Hydrographic Survey Vessel:
The Note is The Project 19920 boat is installed with a range of hydrographic survey equipment to provide accurate data for nautical charting activities. It features surveying profilograph, automated mareograph, sounding depth finder, roll parameter measurement system, self-contained returnable hydrological probe, and sound-in-water velocity meter.

It is also equipped with a multi-beam echo sounder with data acquisition/processing equipment to map the bottom water for efficient underwater navigation purposes..

Here is Radar Systems information for the Alexander Anishchenko-Class (Project 19920 Class) Russian Hydrographic Survey Vessel:
The Navigation Radar is 2 x Navigation Radars (Name: INA).

Here is Sonar Systems information for the Alexander Anishchenko-Class (Project 19920 Class) Russian Hydrographic Survey Vessel:
The Echo Sounder is 1 x Echo Sounder (Name: INA).

Here is Protection information for the Alexander Anishchenko-Class (Project 19920 Class) Russian Hydrographic Survey Vessel:
The Hull is Alexander Anishchenko-Class (Project 19920 Class) Russian Hydrographic Survey Vessel, features a single deck with a continuous main deck and long forecastle. The Middle section of the boat houses the deckhouse and the engine room. The ship’s bow stem is raked forward to provide a comfortable ride, while its stern has a transom shape..
The Countermeasures is No.
The NBC Water Washdown System is Yes.

