This document describes the Mi-2 (Hoplite) Russian Light Utility Helicopter.

The Mil Mi-2 (NATO reporting name Hoplite) is a small, lightly armed turbine-powered transport helicopter that could also provide close air support when armed with 57 mm rockets and a 23 mm cannon. The MI-2 can conduct reconnaissance, resupply guerrillas, and provide close air support with 57mm rockets. It can also have a smoke generator mounted to provide a wide area smoke screen in front of units, screening their movements. Additional missions include; direct air support, antitank, armed reconnaissance, transport, medevac, airborne command post, minelaying, and training. Although the Mi-2 Hoplite was developed by the Mil bureau in the former Soviet Union, the aircraft was produced exclusively in Poland by the PZL Swidnik aircraft factory. Several thousand of these aircraft were built and they remained in production until 1985. The Hoplite has been one of the most widely produced helicopter designs.

The three-blade main rotor is mounted on top of a large hump above the body's midsection. Two turboshaft engines are mounted side-by-side on top of the cabin, forming a hump, with round air intakes above the cockpit and oval exhausts on the sides of the engines. The small, bus-like fuselage with fixed landing gear features a stepped-up cockpit and rounded nose, and a tadpole-shaped body when viewed from the bottom. The tapered tail boom has small, unequally tapered flats and a thin, swept-back fin with a rotor on the right.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Algeria, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bulgaria, Cuba, Czech Republic, Djibouti, Estonia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Latvia, Libya, Lithuania, Mexico, Myanmar, North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Peru, Poland, Russian Federation, Slovakia, Syria, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the Mi-2 (Hoplite) Russian Light Utility Helicopter:
The V-2V is Armament prototype..
The Mi-2 Platan is Aerial minelayer version..
The Mi-2B is Upgraded export version for the Middle East, fitted with improved systems and navigational aids..
The Mi-2Ch Chekla is Chemical reconnaissance / smokescreen layer version..
The Mi-2D Przetacznik is Aerial command post equipped with R-111 radio..
The Mi-2FM is Survey version..
The Mi-2P is Passenger / cargo version, with accommodation for 6 passengers..
The Mi-2R is Agricultural version..
The Mi-2RL is Land rescue/ambulance version..
The Mi-2RM is Sea rescue version equipped with electric winch for two people and dropped rafts..
The Mi-2Ro is Reconnaissance version equipped with cameras..
The UMi-2Ro is Reconnaissance trainer version..
The Mi-2MSB-V or MSB-2MO is Modernized by Motor Sich for Ukrainian Air Force., Original engine replaced with AI-450M 465 HP engine, armed with Rocket and machine gun pods, IR-jamming system and flares dispenser for defense against MANPADS..
The Mi-2MSB or MSB-2 Nadia ('Hope') is Modernized by Motor Sich to passenger-transport version for the civil aviation..
The Mi-3 is Planned Mi-2 derivative that lacked suitable engines for the program to continue..
The Mi-2 Plus is Upgraded Mi-2 with uprated GTD-350W2 engines, all-composite rotor blades, new avionics and other modifications..
The Mi-2URP-G Gniewosz ('Smooth snake') is Mi-2URP with additional 4x AA missiles Strzała-2 (Strela 2) in two Gad rocket launchers..
The Mi-2URP Salamandra ('Salamander') is Gunship and anti-tank variant, armed with 23mm NS-23 gun, optional window-mounted 7,62mm PK machine gun, and 4x AT-3 Sagger (9M14M Malutka) wire-guided missiles on external weapons racks and 4x additional missiles in the cargo compartment..
The Mi-2URN Żmija ('Viper') is Armed reconnaissance variant armed with a fixed 23mm NS-23 gun and two 16x57mm S-5 unguided rocket pods Mars-2. Optional 7,62mm PK machine gun window-mounted..
The Mi-2US is Armed version fitted with a fixed 23mm NS-23 cannon, 4 x 7,62mm PKT machine gun pods and optional cabin PK machine gun..
The Mi-2U is Dual-control training version..

Here is System information for the Mi-2 (Hoplite) Russian Light Utility Helicopter:
The Alternative Designation is Mi-2; NATO: Hoplite.
The Type is Light Utility Helicopter.
The Manufacturer is Mil Moscow Helicopter Plant.
The Primary Function is Its military roles include anti-tank, liaison, air ambulance, training and scout. The Hoplite has been one of the most widely produced helicopter designs.
The In Service is 1965-Present.
The Crew is 1.
The Cargo Capacity is 8 passengers / 700 kg internal cargo / 800 kg external cargo.
The Blades, Main Rotor is 3.
The Blades, Tail Rotor is 2.
The Day/Night Capable is The Mi-2 is primarily a daylight only aircraft.
The All Weather Capable is INA.
The Takeoff or Landing Limitations is INA.
The Number of Hard Points is INA.
The Landing Gear is A fixed tricycle gear has the main wheels extend on a tripod of struts from the lower rear of the cabin..
The Tail Skid is A fixed tail skid is fitted to the tail boom below the horizontal stabilizer..
The Note is The cabin can be reconfigured to take cargo, four litters and a medical attendant, or two sitting casualties and two litters..

Here is Dimensions information for the Mi-2 (Hoplite) Russian Light Utility Helicopter:
The Length is 11.1.
The Height is 3.75.
The Main Rotor Diameter is 14.50.
The Disc Area is 166.4 sq m.
The Weight, Empty is 2,365 kg.
The Weight, Maximum Takeoff is 3,550 kg.
The Weight, Maximum Internal Payload is 700 kg.
The Weight, Maximum Payload, Total is 800 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Mi-2 (Hoplite) Russian Light Utility Helicopter:
The Engine Name is 2 x Isotov GTD-350.
The Engine Type is Turboshaft.
The Engine Power is 400 hp each.
The Speed, Never Exceed is 210 km/h.
The Speed, Cruise is 200 km/h.
The Speed, Maximum Range is 190 km/h.
The Range, Maximum Payload is 170 km.
The Ragne, Maximum Internal Fuel is 440 km.
The Range, Maximum Internal and Auxiliary Fuel, No Reserves is 797 km.
The Climb Rate is 270 m/min.
The Time to 1,000 meters is 5 min 30 sec.
The Time to 4,000 meters is 26 min.
The Ceiling, Service is 4,000 m.
The Ceiling, Hovering in Ground Effect is 2,000 m.
The Ceiling, Hovering Out of Ground Effect is 1,000 m.

Here is Armament information for the Mi-2 (Hoplite) Russian Light Utility Helicopter:
The Note is The Mil Mi-2's primary mission is as a transport helicopter, but the helicopter can be equipped with: Machine guns; cannons; up to 4x  AT-3 Sagger missiles; 2 x SA-7 Grail missiles; or rocket pods on some military models..

Here is Fire Control information for the Mi-2 (Hoplite) Russian Light Utility Helicopter:
The Fire Control System Type is INA.
The Fire Control Radar is No.
The Digital or Analog Cockpit is Analog.
The Direct Fire Control is No.
The Laser Designator is No.
The Automated Helmet is No.
The Sensor Suite(s) Available is INA.
The Position Location System is INA.

Here is Protection information for the Mi-2 (Hoplite) Russian Light Utility Helicopter:
The Fuselage is The helicopter's fuselage is built in three sections to facilitate mission tailoring..
The Cockpit Glass is A stepped windshield and a short nose with large cheek windows for a better downward view..
The Stealth Properties is No.
The Heat Signature Reduction is INA.
The Add on Armor is INA.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The EW is No.
The EW Counter Measures/CCM is No.
The Counter Measures (Chaff/Flares) is INA.
The Note is Main and tail rotor blades electrically deiced..

