This document describes the Puma LE American Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

Puma LE (Long Endurance) reflects AeroVironment’s deep recognition of the features warfighters require from an extended-mission unmanned aircraft system. At just 22.5 pounds, this ultra-lightweight Group 2 aircraft is launchable by hand or bungee and provides up to 5.5 hours flight endurance, delivering Group 2 capabilities in a Group 1 footprint. Puma LE is All Environment, and provides an operational range of 60 kilometers in land and maritime environments when used with AeroVironment’s Long-Range Tracking Antenna. The secondary payload bay contains dedicated power and ethernet, providing 3.4 pounds of payload capacity in addition to the integrated Mantis i45 gimbaled EO/IR sensor and NVG-visible laser illuminator for expanded mission capabilities.

Equally important, Puma LE has been designed to maximize our customers’ investment. Its plug-and-play, interoperable LRU components can be shared across other AeroVironment Puma AE aircraft, reducing logistical and training costs and enabling customers to optimize their fielded systems.

Puma LE joins the Puma All Environment Family to deliver Group 2 capabilities in a Group 1
optimized, two-case mission packout. This ultra-lightweight Group 2 aircraft nearly doubles
the time on station of Puma 3, featuring 5.5 hours of flight endurance and a 60+ km range
when used with the Long Range Tracking Antenna (LRTA). Puma LE comes equipped with
AeroVironment’s Mantis™ i45 gimbaled payload featuring dual Electro-Optical (EO) cameras,
an Infrared (IR) camera, a low-light camera, and an NVG-visible laser illuminator. The aircraft
is multi-mission capable, with a total payload capacity of 5.5 lb. and a secondary payload
bay with dedicated power supply and Ethernet. The system was built for the integration of
multi-mission payloads such as Electronic Warfare, RF Geolocation or Communications Relay.
Puma LE utilizes a precise, waypoint-controlled skid landing and does not require additional
equipment for recovery.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: United States of America.

Here is System information for the Puma LE American Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is Puma LE.
The Type is Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is AeroVironment.
The Endurance is 5.5 hours.
The Payload Capacity is 2.5 kg.
The Payloads is Mantis i45 Gimbaled payload with dual 15mp EO cameras, 50xf zoom, IR camera and low light camera for night operations, and high power illuminator. Secondary Payload Bay: integrates multi-mission payloads including Electronic Warfare, Communications Relay and others..
The GCS is Common GCS with Puma, Raven and Wasp AE.
The Launch and Recovery Method is Hand-launched, bungee launch (optional) Autonomous or manual skid landing.

Here is Dimensions information for the Puma LE American Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is 2.1 m.
The Wingspan is 4.6 m.
The Weight is 11.8 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Puma LE American Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is INA.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 46-76 km/h, 25 knots cruise, 41 knots dash.
The Range is 20 km, up to 60 km with LRTA.
The Maximum Altitude is 500 ft (152 ml) AGL Max Launch Alt 10,000 (3048 ml).

