This document describes the Telemax PRO German Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).

Telemax PRO
The original telemax:
Compact design and high reach!
A truly versatile robot capable of handling significant gradients and obstacles, it boasts an impressive manipulator reach, both vertically and horizontally, combined with minimal dimensions. Perfect for deployments in built-up areas and confined spaces.

Features:
*Precision 7-axis manipulator with TCP control and automatic tool change
*Telescopic joint allows for increased reach of manipulator
*Lifting capacity up to 20 kg (44 lbs.)
*Compact dimensions
*4-track drive system with a top speed of up to 10 km/h (6.2 mph)
*More than 30 pre-programmed automatic motion sequences for manipulator and flippers
*Interchangeability of accessories within the telemax family, e.g. batteries, tools, cameras and sensors

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Germany.

Here is Variants information for the Telemax PRO German Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Telemax 4x4 is elemax with wheels:
Versatile and cost-efficient!
The starter version with a broad wheelbase and 4-wheel drive for rapid deployments on challenging terrains and delicate flooring requiring protection..
The Telemax PRO is The original telemax:
Compact design and high reach!
A truly versatile robot capable of handling significant gradients and obstacles, it boasts an impressive manipulator reach, both vertically and horizontally, combined with minimal dimensions. Perfect for deployments in built-up areas and confined spaces..
The Telemax HYBRID is The best of both worlds – Compact and strong!
The combination of a powerful arm and compact dimensions for the toughest challenges..
The Telemax PLUS is The biggest and strongest telemax:
Versatile and strong!
Our largest and strongest telemax, its exceptional ability to handle gradients and terrains makes it ideal for a particularly broad range of applications..
The Telemax RECCE is Fast solution for reconnaissance:
Agile and smart!
Compact and high performance reconnaissance system without a manipulator provides detailed information from the site, especially when equipped with our autonomy/3D mapping accessory..

Here is System information for the Telemax PRO German Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Alternative Designation is Telemax PRO.
The Type is Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).
The Manufacturer is Faulhaber.
The Crew is 1.
The Payload Capacity is Lifting capacity up to 20 kg.
The Firing Port is 3.

Here is Dimensions information for the Telemax PRO German Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Length is 800 mm.
The Width is 400 mm.
The Height is 750 mm.
The Manipulator, Upward Reach is 2400 mm.
The Manipulator, Forward Reach is 1530 mm.
The Manipulator, Downward Reach is 935 mm.
The Weight is Standard speed version: 75 kg (165 lbs.) (standard configuration
w/o battery)
High speed version: 77 kg (169 lbs.) (standard configuration
w/o battery).

Here is Automotive information for the Telemax PRO German Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is INA.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Drive is Track.
The Maximum Speed is Standard speed version: max. 4 km/h (2.4 mph)
High speed version: max. 10 km/h (6.2 mph).
The Operational Range is INA.
The Mobility, Slopes is 45° (depending on surface).
The Mobility, Stairs is 45° (depending on surface).
The Mobility, Obstacle Height is 500 mm.
The Mobility, Gap Width is 600 mm.
The Fording Depth is 266-660 mm.
The Battery is NiMh battery (24 V, 15 Ah) or Li-ion battery (26 V, 40 Ah).
The Endurance is NiMh battery (24 V, 15 Ah):
approx. 2 h with 1 battery; approx. 4 h with 2 batteries
Li-ion battery (26 V, 40 Ah):
approx. 5 h with 1 battery; approx. 10 h with 2 batteries.

Here is Protection information for the Telemax PRO German Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is INA.

