This document describes the Leeuwin Class Australian Hydrographic Survey Ship.

The Leeuwin Class Australian Hydrographic Survey Ship is a two-ship class of hydrographic survey vessels operated by the Royal Australian Navy (RAN). Leeuwin and Melville were ordered from NQEA Australia in 1996, and were commissioned in 2000. The ships are capable of charting waters up to 6,000 meters deep, carry three Fantome-class survey boats, and can operate an AS 350B Squirrel helicopter.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Australia.

Here is Variants information for the Leeuwin Class Australian Hydrographic Survey Ship:
The Leeuwin is Commissioned: 2000 
Status: Active.
The Melville is Commissioned: 2000
Status: Active.

Here is System information for the Leeuwin Class Australian Hydrographic Survey Ship:
The Alternative Designation is Leeuwin Class.
The Type is Hydrographic Survey Ship.
The Builder is NQEA Australia, Cairns.
The Crew is 10 officers, 46 sailors, up to 5 trainees.

Here is Dimensions information for the Leeuwin Class Australian Hydrographic Survey Ship:
The Length is 71.2 m.
The Height is INA.
The Beam is 15.2 m.
The Draft is 4.3 m.
The Displacement, Standard is INA.
The Displacement, Full Load is 2,170 tons.

Here is Propulsion System information for the Leeuwin Class Australian Hydrographic Survey Ship:
The Engine Name is 4 x GEC Alsthom 6RK 215.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Bowthruster is 1 × Schottel bow thruster.
The Maximum Range is 18,000 nautical miles (33,000 km) at 9 knots (17 km/h).
The Maximum Speed is 13 knots (24 km/h).

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Leeuwin Class Australian Hydrographic Survey Ship:
The Note is 2 x 12.7mm Heavy Machine Gun.

Here is Radar Systems information for the Leeuwin Class Australian Hydrographic Survey Ship:
The Navigation Radar is 1 x STN Atlas 9600 ARPA navigation radar.

Here is Sonar Systems information for the Leeuwin Class Australian Hydrographic Survey Ship:
The Hull Mounted Sonar is 1 x C-Tech CMAS 36/39; hull mounted high frequency active sonar.
The Multibeam Echo Sounder is 1 x Atlas Fansweep-20 multibeam echo sounder.
The Single-beam Echo Sounder is 1 x Atlas Hydrographic Deso single-beam echo sounder.
The Towed Side Scan Sonar is 1 x Klein 2000 towed side scan sonar array.

Here is Aviation Facilities information for the Leeuwin Class Australian Hydrographic Survey Ship:
The Flight Deck is Yes.
The Aircraft is 1 x AS 350B Squirrel (not permanently embarked).

Here is Protection information for the Leeuwin Class Australian Hydrographic Survey Ship:
The Countermeasures is No.
The NBC Water Washdown System is Yes.
The Electronic Warfare is NO.

