This document describes the RFT-2 Chinese Remote Initiation System.

The RFT-2 remote initiation system is a widely proliferated Remote Control Firing Device (RCFD) used primarily by non-state actors, criminal organizations, and terrorists that use the Improvised Explosive Device (IED) tactics. According to the NATO Counter-IED (C-IED) community of interest, the Remote FOB (finger-operated button) Trigger-Type 2 (RFT-2) is the designation given to the most prolific RCFD worldwide. This RCFD is a commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) device is comprised of an electronically paired transmitter and a receiver with printed circuit boards (PCB). When the user depresses a button on the transmitter, it sends a signal to the receiver. The signal is received, decoded, and verified by the RFT-2 device, which then sends an electrical current to the detonator.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Afghanistan, China, Hong Kong, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Lebanon, Pakistan, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of).

Here is Variants information for the RFT-2 Chinese Remote Initiation System:
The Safwan-Electric RFT-2 variant (Saudi Arabia) is Safwan-Electric provides RFT-2 style RCFDs to Syrian armed groups to be used against the Al-Assad regime..

Here is System information for the RFT-2 Chinese Remote Initiation System:
The Alternate Designation is RFT-2 Wireless Signal Transmitter (YK-3000 and CB-4; identical models, different nomenclature).
The Type is Remote Wireless Initiator.
The Manufacturer is Soolai Electronics Company, Ltd. (China); Other companies based in Shenzhen, China. No further information available..
The Operating Range is Up to 1,000 meters depending on terrain, obstructions, and other factors..
The Firing Output Power is INA.
The Frequency Range is 315 MHZ, but also can be found operating at 433 MHz.
The Power Source (Transmitter) is 9 volt battery.
The Power Source (Receiver) is INA.
The Environmental Temperature Range is INA.

Here is Dimensions information for the RFT-2 Chinese Remote Initiation System:
The Width (Transmitter) is 38 mm.
The Width (Receiver) is 65 mm.
The Depth (Transmitter) is 25 mm.
The Depth (Receiver) is 33 mm.
The Height (Transmitter) is 152 mm.
The Height (Receiver) is 140 mm.
The Weight (Transmitter) is INA.
The Weight (Receiver) is INA.

