This document describes the MDK-2M Russian Tracked Trench-Digging Vehicle.

The MDK-2M was a Soviet Cold War-era artillery tractor. It was based on the chassis of the AT-T, which itself is based on the chassis and drive system from the T-54 tank.

The MDK-2M was used for rapid digging of large coverages and for drawing tank trenches (digging depth up to 4.7 m width and grave 3.5 - 4m). The stored for shifts on the vehicle rear tiller is lowered for the milling hydraulically to the rear.

It was in service in the Soviet army, the Russian army, the East German army, and the Hungarian army.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Hungary, Russian Federation, Ukraine.

Here is Variants information for the MDK-2M Russian Tracked Trench-Digging Vehicle:
The MDK-2 is The MDK-2 is used for digging weapon trenches and pits for vehicles, guns, and other equipment..
The MDK-2M is There is also an improved MDK-2M model, this having an increased working speed of 387 m³/h. Ditch depth remains 4.5 m, and width remains 4 m (top) and 3.5 m (bottom)..
The MDK-3 is The MDK-3 trench-digging machine (maschina dorozhnoy kopatelnoy) was developed as the Russian armyʼs intended replacement of the MDK-2, and MDK-2M..

Here is System information for the MDK-2M Russian Tracked Trench-Digging Vehicle:
The Alternative Designation is MDK-2M.
The Type is Tracked Trench-Digging Vehicle.
The Manufacturer is Izdeliye 453.
The Chassis is Based on the chassis of the AT-T heavy tracked artillery tractor..
The Crew is 2.
The Depth of Dug Ditch is 4.5 m.
The Width of Dug Ditch, Top is 4.7 m.
The Width of Dug Ditch, Bottom is 3.5 m.

Here is Dimensions information for the MDK-2M Russian Tracked Trench-Digging Vehicle:
The Length, in Travel Configuration is 8 m.
The Length, in Ditch Digging Configuration is 10.23 m.
The Width, in Travel Configuration is 3.4 m.
The Width, in Ditch Digging Configuration is INA.
The Height, in Travel Configuration is 3.95 m.
The Height, in Ditch Digging Configuration is 3.48 m.
The Weight is 28,000 kg.
The Ground Pressure is 0.73 Kgs/cm².

Here is Automotive information for the MDK-2M Russian Tracked Trench-Digging Vehicle:
The Engine Name is V-401.
The Engine Type is V12 Diesel.
The Engine Power is 415 hp at 1,600 rpm.
The Range is 500.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 35.
The Gradient is 80%.
The Side Slope is 22%.

Here is Main Weapon System information for the MDK-2M Russian Tracked Trench-Digging Vehicle:
The Note is The MDK-2M is not equipment with any mounted weapon systems..

Here is Protection information for the MDK-2M Russian Tracked Trench-Digging Vehicle:
The Hull Armor is None.
The Applique Armor is No.
The Mine Clearning is No.
The NBC Protection is Yes, overpressure.
The Smoke Equipment is No.

