This document describes the RPK Russian 7.62mm Light Machine Gun.

The RPK (Ruchnoy Pulemyot Kalashnikova, Russian: РПК Ручной пулемёт Калашникова or "Kalashnikov hand-held machine gun") is a 7.62×39mm light machine gun of Soviet design, developed by Mikhail Kalashnikov in the early 1960s, parallel with the AKM assault rifle. It was created as part of a program designed to standardize the small arms inventory of the Red Army, where it replaced the 7.62×39mm RPD light machine gun. The RPK continues to be used by the armed forces of countries of the former Soviet Union and certain African and Asian nations. The RPK is also manufactured in Bulgaria, Romania, and Serbia.

The RPK functions identically to the AK-47. It also uses the same 7.62×39mm ammunition. It has a similar design layout to the Kalashnikov series of rifles, with modifications to increase the RPK's effective range and accuracy, enhance its sustained fire capability, and strengthen the receiver.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Afghanistan, Albania, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, China, Congo, Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Hungary, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Lesotho, Libya, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Moldova, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nicaragua, Nigeria, North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Poland, Romania, Russian Federation, Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Tanzania, Uganda, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zimbabwe.

Here is Variants information for the RPK Russian 7.62mm Light Machine Gun:
The RPKS is The RPKS ("S" — Skladnoy) means "folding" [stock]) is a variant of the RPK with a side-folding wooden stock was intended primarily for the air assault infantry.  Changes to the design of the RPKS are limited only to the shoulder stock mounting, at the rear of the receiver.  It uses a trunnion riveted to both receiver walls that has a socket and tang, allowing the stock to hinge on a pivot pin.  The trunnion has a cut-out on the right side which is designed to engage the stock catch and lock it in place when folded. The wooden stock is mounted in a pivoting hull, which contains a catch that secures the butt-stock in the extended position.  The rear sling loop was moved from the left side of the stock body to the right side of the stock frame..
The Night Version is The RPK family of light machine guns are also available in a night fighting configuration.  These weapons are designated as the RPKN, RPKSN, RPK-74N, and RPKS-74N.  They have a side rail mounting on the left side of the receiver that accepts a NSP-3, NSPU, or NSPUM night vision sight.  Models designated RPKN-1, RPKSN-1, RPK-74N and RPKS-74N can mount the multi-model night vision scope NSPU-3 (1PN51) while RPKN2, RPKSN2, RPK-74N2 and RPKS-74N2 can mount the multi-model night vision scope NSPUM (1PN58)..
The RPK-74 is Some sources call the RPK-74 a variant of the RPK though the RPK-74 is a 5.45×39mm weapon.  Please refer to the RPK-74 WEG sheet for information on this weapon..

Here is System information for the RPK Russian 7.62mm Light Machine Gun:
The Alternate Designation(s) is RPK.
The Type is Light Machine Gun.
The Caliber is 7.62 mm.
The Manufacturer is Vyatskiye Polyany Machine-Building Plant.
The Action is Gas operated, rotating bolt; closed bolt.
The Cooling Method is Air.
The Maximum Effective Range for Point Target is 1,000.
The Maximum Range is 3,150.
The Muzzle Velocity is 745.
The Sustained Rate of Fire is 600.
The Magazine Capacity (ies) is 20-, 30-, 40-round curved magazine, 75-round drum magazine.
The Rail System Capable is Can be modified to have rails but rails are not standard equipment.
The Sights Available from Manufacturer is Iron sights.
The Capable of Attaching other Weapons (Grenade launcher, bayonet, etc.) is No.
The Bi-pod Capable is Yes.

Here is Dimensions information for the RPK Russian 7.62mm Light Machine Gun:
The Length is 1,040.
The Barrel Length is 590.
The Weight Without a Magazine is 4.8.
The Weight With a Loaded Magazine (Indicate number of rounds) is INA.

Here is 57-N-231 information for the RPK Russian 7.62mm Light Machine Gun of the Ammunition:
The Type is Steel Core (Ball).
The Cartridge Weight is 16.3 g.
The Bullet Weight is 7.9 g.
The Muzzle Velocity is 718 m/s.
The Accuracy at 300m is 75 mm.

Here is 57-N-231P information for the RPK Russian 7.62mm Light Machine Gun of the Ammunition:
The Type is Tracer.
The Cartridge Weight is 16.1 g.
The Bullet Weight is 7.57 g.
The Muzzle Velocity is 718 m/s.
The Accuracy at 300m is 140 mm.

Here is 57-T-231PM1 information for the RPK Russian 7.62mm Light Machine Gun of the Ammunition:
The Type is Tracer.
The Cartridge Weight is 16.05 g.
The Bullet Weight is 7.55 g.
The Muzzle Velocity is 718 m/s.
The Accuracy at 300m is 140 mm.

Here is Iron Sights information for the RPK Russian 7.62mm Light Machine Gun of the Sights:
The Sight Picture Offered to Shooter is Iron sights: semi-shrouded front post and rear sliding tangent with an adjustable notch.  Sight radius: 555 mm.  The rear sight leaf also features a windage adjustment knob, unique to the RPK series of rifles..
The Adjustable is Yes.
The Note is The weapon's rear sight leaf is elevation adjustable, and graduated for ranges of 100 to 1,000 meters in 100 m increments. The rear sight leaf also features a windage adjustment knob unique to the RPK series of rifles..

Here is Accessories information for the RPK Russian 7.62mm Light Machine Gun:
The Note is Supplied with the RPK are: spare magazines, a cleaning rod, cleaning kit (stored in a hollowed compartment in the buttstock), a sling, oil bottle, and magazine pouches (a single-pocket pouch for a drum magazine or a 4-pocket pouch for box magazines)..

