This document describes the Switchblade 600 American Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The Switchblade 600 American Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) represents the next generation of extended-range loitering missiles, delivering unprecedented RSTA support and featuring high-precision optics, over 40 minutes of loitering endurance, and an anti-armor warhead for engaging larger, hardened targets at greater distances. 

As an all-in-one, man-portable solution, Switchblade 600 includes everything required to successfully plan and execute missions and can be set up and operational in less than 10 minutes. Equipped with class-leading, high-resolution EO/IR gimbaled sensors and advanced precision flight control, Switchblade 600 empowers the warfighter with quick and easy deployment via tube-launch, and the capability to fly, track and engage non-line-of-sight targets and armored vehicles with precision lethal effects without the need for external ISR or fires assets. 

Patented wave-off and recommit capability allows operators to abort the mission at any time and then re-engage either the same or other targets multiple times based on operator command. 

Whether it’s from fixed defensive positions, combat vehicles with integrated organic precision fire, or air-launched applications, Switchblade 600 provides field commanders with a multi-mission loitering missile system capable of multi-domain operations.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the Switchblade 600 American Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Switchblade 300 is The Switchblade 300 American Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) is the ideal loitering missile for use against beyond-line-of-sight targets. Backpackable and rapidly deployable from air, sea or ground platforms, Switchblade 300 delivers increased warfighter lethality with real-time GPS coordinates and video for precise targeting with low collateral effects. Switchblade Sensor to Shooter (S2S) combines the superior ISR capabilities of AeroVironment’s small unmanned aircraft systems (SUAS) with the precision strike capabilities of the Switchblade loitering missile system. Through S2S software, target coordinates are instantly transferred from the SUAS to Switchblade via machine-to-machine communication, reducing engagement timelines and operator cognitive load. S2S provides Switchblade operators with real-time video downlinks for a centralized view of the area of operation and the ability to scene-match SUAS ISR and Switchblade 300 camera feeds on one screen..
The Blackwing is The Blackwing is an unarmed variant of the Switchblade 300 with similar weight and dimensions. It was developed for the United States Navy to provide rapid ISR (Intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance) as well as command and control relay operations among surface and undersea manned and unmanned vessels..

Here is System information for the Switchblade 600 American Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is Switchblade 600.
The Type is Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is AeroVironment.
The Autonomy is Semi-Autonomous.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Payload Capacity is The Switchblade 600 carries an ATGM warhead based on the Javelin ATGM, designed to neutralize armored vehicles..
The Ground Control Station is The Switchblade uses the same Ground Control Station (GCS) as other AeroVironment UAVs including the Wasp, RQ-11 Raven, and RQ-20 Puma..
The Launching System is Portable tube; multipack; assorted vehicles.
The Recovery System is INA.

Here is Dimensions information for the Switchblade 600 American Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is 130 cm.
The Diameter is 150 mm.
The Height is INA.
The Wingspan is INA.
The Maximum Takeoff Weight is 54.4 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Switchblade 600 American Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Electric.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 185 km/h.
The Cruising Speed is 113 km/h.
The Service Ceiling is 150 m.
The Maximum Range is 80 km.
The Endurance is 40 min.

