This document describes the Mercedes-Benz G290 German 4x4 Ambulance.

The Mercedes-Benz G-Class, sometimes called G-Wagen (short for Geländewagen, "terrain vehicle"), is a mid-size four-wheel drive luxury SUV manufactured by Magna Steyr (formerly Steyr-Daimler-Puch) in Austria and sold by Mercedes-Benz. In certain markets, it has been sold under the Puch name as Puch G.

The G-Wagen is characterised by its boxy styling and body-on-frame construction. It uses three fully locking differentials, one of the few vehicles to have such a feature.

Despite the introduction of an intended replacement, the unibody SUV Mercedes-Benz GL-Class in 2006, the G-Class is still in production and is one of the longest produced vehicles in Daimler's history, with a span of 40 years. Only the Unimog surpasses it.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Eastern Europe, Western Europe.

Here is System information for the Mercedes-Benz G290 German 4x4 Ambulance:
The Alternative Designation is Mercedes-Benz G-Class.
The Type is Ambulance.
The Manufacturer is Mercedes-Benz.
The Crew is 2.
The Passenger Capacity is 3 x Liter patients or 6 x ambulatory.

Here is Dimensions information for the Mercedes-Benz G290 German 4x4 Ambulance:
The Length is 4.2 ~ 4.6 m.
The Width is 1.7 m.
The Height is 1.9 m.
The Maximum Load is 0.5 ~ 1.5 t.
The Weight, Empty is 1.75 t.

Here is Automotive information for the Mercedes-Benz G290 German 4x4 Ambulance:
The Engine Name is Mercedes-Benz OM 615.
The Engine Type is 2.9-liter diesel.
The Engine Power is 156.
The Range is 600.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 120.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.
The Gradient is 70.
The Side Slope is 30.
The Vertical Step is 0.5.
The Trench is 0.5.
The Fording Depth is 0.5.
The Note is Since its introduction a number of petrol and diesel engines have been fitted to this vehicle. Both manual and automatic gearboxes were available. Older vehicles have selectable four-wheel drive. Modern G-class utility vehicles have a full-time all-wheel drive. This military vehicle made its reputation for reliability and ruggedness..

Here is Protection information for the Mercedes-Benz G290 German 4x4 Ambulance:
The Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is Available.
The Active Protection System is No.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is No.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

