This document describes the IsatPhone 2 American Inmarsat Satellite Phone.

IsatPhone 2 is the latest addition to our handheld satellite phone portfolio, offering a range of new features to ensure you stay connected in even the most extreme and remote locations.

IsatPhone 2 is a tough phone for a tough world. The robust handset has been engineered to cope with anything that nature can throw at it – from searing heat to icy blasts, desert sandstorms or monsoon rain.
And with fast network registration, an unrivalled battery life offering 8 hours' talk time and up to 160 hours on standby, you know you can always depend on IsatPhone 2.

What’s more, IsatPhone 2 gives you the excellent voice clarity and call stability you expect from the world-leading Inmarsat network.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Australia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Here is System information for the IsatPhone 2 American Inmarsat Satellite Phone:
The Alternative Designation is IsatPhone 2.
The Type is Inmarsat Satellite Phone.
The Manufacturer is Inmarsat.
The Crew is 1.
The Display is High-contrast colour screen.
The Interfaces is Micro USB
Audio socket
Antenna port
Bluetooth 2.0.
The Durability is IP65
IK04.
The Operating Range is -20°C to +55°C (-4°F to +131°F).
The Storage Range is -20ºC to +70ºC (-4ºF to +158ºF) (with battery).
The Charging Range is 0°C to +45°C (+32°F to +113°F).
The Battery is Type:	Lithium-ion, 3.7 volts
Talk time:	Up to 8 hours
Standby time:	Up to 160 hours.
The Satellite Telephony is 2.4kbps voice codec.
The Voicemail is Speed dial 1.
The Supplementary Voice Services is Call history
Caller ID
Call waiting
Call divert
Call holding
Conferencing
Call barring
Speed dialling
Fixed number dialling.
The Text-to-Text is 160 Latin / ~74 non-Latin characters
Up to 10 concatenations
Standard and predictive text.
The Text-to-Email is 160 Latin / ~74 non-Latin characters
Up to 10 concatenations
Incoming email – 160 Latin characters / ~74 non-Latin characters.
The GPS Locattion Data is View position
Send as text or email.
The Reliable Network is Operates over our global I-4 satellite network, ensuring reliable call stability and seamless roaming worldwide..
The Global Coverage is IsatPhone 2 coverage is worldwide, apart from the Poles. Calls are made via a single, global network so there are no roaming charges..

Here is Dimensions information for the IsatPhone 2 American Inmarsat Satellite Phone:
The Length is 169mm.
The Width, without Antenna is 52mm.
The Width, with Antenna is 75mm.
The Depth, in Hand is 29mm.
The Depth, at Deepest Point is 36mm.
The Weight is 318g (11.2oz) – including battery.

