This document describes the Kurganets-25 Russian Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC).

The Kurganets-25 APC is a lightly armed armored personnel carrier that can move 8 infantrymen to the battle with the support of one 12.7mm machine gun.  The machine gun is in a remotely controlled turret.  
As part of the Russian army’s efforts to modularize their combat systems, the Kurganets-25 IFV and APC will evolve into various models, gradually replacing BMP, BMD, MT-LB and other types of tracked Soviet armored platforms. The Kurganets-25 will have modular armor that can be upgraded for specific threats. 
The Kurganets-25 IFV and APC variants were first seen in public during rehearsals for the 2015 Moscow Victory Day Parade. 
The Kurganets-25 is designed to bring the Russian tracked troop carrier fleet up to standard with Western designs like the American M2 Bradley and British Warrior, which outclassed their Soviet Cold War BMP-series counterparts. Kurganets-25 is based on Armata Universal Combat Platform while being lighter than the T-15 Armata "heavy IFV" based on the same and similar to wheeled VPK-7829 Bumerang. The APC carries 8 troops. Other variants proposed for the Kurganets include an armored ambulance, an 82 mm Vasilek mortar carrier, anti-tank vehicle, armored recovery vehicle, a reconnaissance vehicle, a command vehicle, and an armored engineering vehicle.  The vehicle represents a departure from traditional Russian low profile designs, having a higher floor more suited for mounted combat rather than troop carrying, which also provides better IED and mine protection. While the T-15 is expected to be deployed with T-14 tanks in armored formations, Kurganets-25 platforms will equip mechanized units.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China, Russian Federation, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of).

Here is Variants information for the Kurganets-25 Russian Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC):
The Armored Recovery Vehicle is Equipped with a crane, a winch, and armed with a 12.7mm heavy machine gun.
The Armored Ambulance is Proposed addition to the Russian army.
The 82mm Vasilek Mortar Carrier is Proposed addition to the Russian army.
The Anti-tank Vehicle is Proposed addition to the Russian army.
The Reconnaissance Vehicle is Proposed addition to the Russian army.
The Command Vehicle is Proposed addition to the Russian army.
The Armored Engineering Vehicle is Proposed addition to the Russian army.
The Self Propelled Anti-Aircraft Gun (SPAAG) is Proposed addition to the Russian army.
The Self Propelled Gun (125mm) is Proposed addition to the Russian army.

Here is System information for the Kurganets-25 Russian Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC):
The Alternative Designation is Kurganets-25 BTR.
The Crew is 3.
The Passenger Capacity is 8.
The Maximum Effective Range is 2,000.

Here is Dimensions information for the Kurganets-25 Russian Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC):
The Length is 7.2.
The Width is 4.
The Height is 3.2.
The Weight, Combat is INA.

Here is Automotive information for the Kurganets-25 Russian Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC):
The Engine Name is YaMZ-780 inline engine with two turbochargers.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 750.
The Cruising Range is 500.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 80.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is 10.
The Fording Depth is Amphibious.
The Gradient is 60.
The Side Slope is 40.
The Vertical Step is 0.7.
The Trench is 1.8.

Here is System information for the Kurganets-25 Russian Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC) of the Main Gun:
The Name is Kord Russian 12.7mm.
The Type is Heavy Machine Gun.
The Max Rate of Fire is 650.
The Sustain Rate of Fire is 600.
The Range Finder Type is Laser.

Here is Ammunition Option 1 information for the Kurganets-25 Russian Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC) of the Main Gun:
The Type is AP-I.
The Caliber is 12.7.
The Muzzle Velocity is 860.
The Basic Load is ~500.
The Max Effective Range is 2,000.
The Max Range is 4.
The Min Range is 0.
The Armor Penetration is INA.
The Projectile Weight is 389.
The Bursting Charge is 49.

Here is Fire Control information for the Kurganets-25 Russian Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC):
The Name is INA.
The Turret is Remote Controlled.
The Thermal Sight Vehicle Commander is Yes.
The Thermal Sight Gunner is Yes.
The Main Gun Stabilization is Yes.
The Range, Day Sight is INA.
The Range, Thermal Sight is INA.

Here is Protection information for the Kurganets-25 Russian Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC):
The Hull Armor is Aluminum Alloy.
The Turret Armor is Unmanned.
The Applique Armor is Optional.
The Explosive Reactive Armor is Optional.
The Active Protection System is Has sensors but no counter measures.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is Yes.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

