This document describes the SPEAR Israeli 120mm Autonomous Mortar System.

Elbit Systems’ SPEAR is a fully autonomous, vehicle-mounted 120mm soft recoil mortar system for high-mobility platforms. SPEAR delivers effective fire support by combining the flexibility and effectiveness of accurate mortar firepower with exceptional tactical mobility. The mortar is a derivative of the CARDOM battle-proven mortar system - more than 1,000 systems extensively used by the US Army, NATO, Israeli Defense Forces (IDF), and others.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Canada, CFE Treaty, Chile, Colombia, Israel, Kazakhstan, Mexico, Nigeria, Poland, South Korea (Republic of Korea), Sweden, Ukraine.

Here is System information for the SPEAR Israeli 120mm Autonomous Mortar System:
The Alternative Designation is SPEAR.
The Type is Autonomous Mortar System.
The Caliber is 120 mm.
The Manufacturer is Elbit Systems.
The Crew is 4-5.
The Chassis is SandCat Stormer.
The Payload Capacity is up to 2,109 kg.

Here is Dimensions (Chassis: SandCat Stormer) information for the SPEAR Israeli 120mm Autonomous Mortar System:
The Length is 5.03 m.
The Width is 2.16 m.
The Height is 2.24 m.
The Wheelbase is 2.95 m.
The Ground Clearance is 0.33 m.

Here is Automotive (Chassis: SandCat Stormer) information for the SPEAR Israeli 120mm Autonomous Mortar System:
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is 6.7 L Power Stroke diesel.
The Engine Power is 325.
The Power-to-Weight Ratio is 36 hp/ton.
The Transmission is Allison 2000 series 5-speed automatic torque-shift.
The Torque is 650 lb-ft (880 Nm).
The Fuel Capacity is 120 liters in two tanks.
The Suspension is coil springs and shock-absorbers at the front and leaf springs and shock-absorbers at the rear. Uprated as required (second generation had a Plasan-designed coil spring and trailing arm rear suspension.
The Maximum Speed is 120 kph.
The Range is 500-550 km.
The Gradient is 60 %.
The Side Slope is 39 %.
The Approach Angle is 38 deg.
The Vertical Obstacle is 0.46 m.
The Departure Angle is 30 deg.
The Turning Radius is 6.00 m.

Here is System information for the SPEAR Israeli 120mm Autonomous Mortar System of the Main Weapon System:
The Name is 1 x SPEAR.
The Type is Autonomous soft recoil mortar system.
The Caliber is 120 mm.
The Sustained Rate of Fire is 3-4RPM for 10-20
minutes.
The Burst Rate of Fire is 12-16RPM.
The Command and Control is SPEAR is equipped with
computerized aiming and navigation devices, enabling
the mortar system to be operated autonomously and
aimed without the need for external reference points.
SPEAR can be easily integrated with a variety of C4
I or
Battle Management Systems (BMS)..
The Integrated GPS and INS is Yes.
The Soft Recoil Reduction is Equipped with a recoil reduction system that reduces the mortar’s
firing loads from 30+ tons to as low as 12-15 tons, the
“soft recoil” allows the SPEAR to be mounted on a variety
of high-mobility light tactical vehicles such as HMMWVs,
jeeps and other high-mobility rapid deployment wheeled
platforms as well as bigger wheeled or tracked platforms.
The Configuration is The system can operate
independently with forward observers and/or deployed
forces. The system can also be deployed standalone or as
part of the battery/platoon configuration..
The Fire Control System is Targeting information is relayed to the Fire Control System (FCS) which computes the ballistic data
and orders the mortar’s automatic laying system to position
the mortar barrel to the exact azimuth and elevation. The
system is embedded with an Inertial Navigation System
(INS) to provide maximum accuracy..

Here is Ammunition information for the SPEAR Israeli 120mm Autonomous Mortar System of the Main Weapon System:
The Type is All types of qualified 120mm
smooth bore ammunition.
The Caliber is 120 mm.
The Basic Load is INA.

Here is Protection information for the SPEAR Israeli 120mm Autonomous Mortar System:
The Hull Armor is With the armor kits, the vehicle can provide protection equivalent to NATO Standard Agreement (STANAG) level 4 for improvised explosive device (IED) fragments; level 3+ for kinetic energy; and level 2a for mine-blast protection..
The Applique Armor is Available.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

