This document describes the Type 87 Chu-MAT Japanese Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM).

The Type 87 Chu-MAT Japanese Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM)was designed around the early 1980s as a medium-range missile to complement the earlier Type 79 Jyu-MAT and to replace the older Type 64 MAT. The Chu-MAT is a very advanced and complex system with good performance. The Chu-MAT is in the same performance league as the French MILAN and Russian 9K111 Fagot. The Chu-MAT system consists of a launch assembly and a targeting system on a tripod. The launch assembly consists of a box on which the launch tube is fitted. A bipod and optical sight are fitted. It is understood that it is possible to launch the Chu-MAT as a free-flight missile in case of an emergency. The targeting system consists of an advanced laser designator system on a tripod for SACLOS guidance. The launch assembly may be attached on the tripod next to the targeting system or positioned in the field up to 200 meters away. Positioning the launcher in the field may be wise as the missile exhaust may interfere with the laser. The missile must be guided all the way until it strikes and the operator cannot leave his post early.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Japan.

Here is Variants information for the Type 87 Chu-MAT Japanese Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The Type 87 Chu-MAT is Base Model.

Here is Type 87 Chu-MAT Japanese Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM) information for the Type 87 Chu-MAT Japanese Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM) of the System:
The Name is Type 87 Chu-MAT.
The Type is Laser Guided Anti-Tank Missile.
The Caliber is 100.
The Manufacturer is Kawasaki Heavy Industries / Mitsubishi Motors - Japan.
The Crew is 3.
The Action is Laser-Guided; Semi-Active; Single-Shot..
The Engine is Solid Fuel System.
The Guidance System is Laser guidance.
The Rate of Fire is 3 rounds-per-minute.
The Effective Range is 1,999 m.
The Remote Launching Capability is Remote Launching is possible through limited from designator to launcher up to 200 meters..
The Sights is Laser assisted sights.

Here is Dimensions information for the Type 87 Chu-MAT Japanese Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM) of the System:
The Missile Length is 1,063 mm.
The Missile Diameter is 110 mm.
The Missile Weight is 12 kg.
The System Weight is 140 kg.

