This document describes the KWT-TMOP-100 Chinese Tethered Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The KWT-TMOP-100 Chinese Tethered Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) is used for industrial applications, aerial photography, telecom applications, inspection, instrument, monitoring, civilian, offshore applications, mapping, logistics, observation, reconnaissance, for the movie industry, for exterior security applications, for photogrammetry, gas detection, for heavy loads.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is Variants information for the KWT-TMOP-100 Chinese Tethered Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The KWT-TMOP-300 is Is used for industrial applications, aerial photography, telecom applications, inspection, instrument, monitoring, civilian, offshore applications, mapping, logistics, observation, reconnaissance, for the movie industry, for exterior security applications, for photogrammetry, gas detection, for heavy loads..

Here is System information for the KWT-TMOP-100 Chinese Tethered Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is KWT-TMOP-100.
The Type is Tethered Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is Shenzhen Keweitai Enterprise Development Co.,Ltd.
The Autonomy is Semi-Autonomous.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Cable Length is 120 m.
The Deployment Time is less than 4 min.
The Launching System is Vertical Take-Off and Landing (VTOL).
The Recovery System is Vertical Take-Off and Landing (VTOL).

Here is Dimensions information for the KWT-TMOP-100 Chinese Tethered Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is INA.
The Wingspan is 620 mm.
The Motor Wheelbase is 1,600 mm.
The Fuselage Height is INA.
The Weight, Empty is 2 kg.
The Maximum Takeoff Weight is 15 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the KWT-TMOP-100 Chinese Tethered Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is INA.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Continuous Working Time is 8 hours.
The Tethered Flight Height is 100 m.
The Height Holding Performance is 2 m.
The Hovering Accuracy is 1.5 m.
The Heading Angle Accuracy is 3 deg.
The Emergency Landing Time is 2 min.
The Endurance is 8 hours.

