This document describes the Remington 870 American Pump-Action 12-Gauge Shotgun.

This All-American pump gun brings hunters the best of all worlds. Beneath the no-nonsense, ready-for-work exterior of the Model 870 Express Trap lies the same quality, precision, and dependability that you'll find in our legendary Model 870 Wingmaster, but at a much more affordable price.  

Like all Model 870 shotguns, this workhorse features a receiver milled from a solid billet of steel for maximum strength and reliability. The silky-smooth twin action bars prevent binding and twisting so that you'll always have the chance to get off a second shot. Express style non-reflective black matte metalwork and a no-frills hardwood stock and fore-end.

Its solid, dependable action makes it America’s favorite, and our continual upgrades make it the most advanced, well-rounded family of pump shotguns around.  Along with continually evolving designs, this shotgun’s superiority is a matter of rugged dependability, great pointing characteristics, and versatility. In fact, Model 870™ has been the standard for slide-action performance for more than 60 years.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the Remington 870 American Pump-Action 12-Gauge Shotgun:
The Express is Matte blue/black bead-blasted with hardwood, laminated hardwood or synthetic stocks and chambered for 2 3/4" and 3" 12 or 20 gauge shotshells. All Expresses have been chambered in 3" in 12 and 20 gauge, but markings have varied..
The Marine is Nickel-plated with synthetic stocks..
The Mark 1 is adopted by the United States Marine Corps in the late 1960s and saw service into the 21st century. The Model 870 Mark 1 has a 21-inch (53 cm) barrel with an extended magazine increasing total capacity to 8 rounds, and was fitted with an adapter allowing use of the standard M7 bayonet for the M16 rifle..
The MCS (Modular Combat Shotgun) is A new modular version of the M870 which can be quickly modified with different barrels, magazine tubes, and stocks for different purposes, such as urban combat and door breaching..
The Police is Chambered in 12 gauge only with a 3" magnum chamber. Blued or Parkerized steel finish. These models feature a stronger sear spring, carrier latch spring, and a forged steel extractor (as opposed to the MIM extractor found on Express models). Receivers are stamped "Remington 870 Police Magnum" as of 2014. They are equipped with Police-specific walnut or synthetic stocks which are fitted with sling mounts. Walnut stocks lack checkering as found on the Express/Wingmaster models. 870P models come with matching walnut or synthetic forends that are shortened to prevent interference with most vehicle-mounted rack systems. The shortened forend also allows quick visual inspection of the magazine regardless of what position the forend is in, whereas the lengthened sport-type forend on other models partially blocks the loading port when pulled to the rear. Police models are available with 18" or 20" barrels, with or without rifle sights, and have a standard capacity of four rounds. They can be ordered with a two or three round extended magazine tube from the factory, bringing total capacity to 6+1 (18" barrel) or 7+1 (20" barrel). All police barrels come with an Improved Cylinder choke unless special ordered..
The Super Mag is Chambered for 3½" 12 gauge shotshells..
The Wingmaster is Blued steel with high gloss or satin walnut stocks. They have been offered in Skeet, Trap, and field configurations. Originally the basic Wingmaster was chambered for 2 3/4" rounds and came with a fixed choke, and the 3" chambered versions were designated Magnum models. Models built after 1986 offer the RemChoke Interchangeable choke tube system, and the 12 and 20 gauge versions are chambered in 3" for either 2 3/4" or 3" shells. Prior to the introduction of the "Police" model 870, altered Wingmasters were popular among law enforcement..
The Tac-14 is Black oxide receiver finish, with a synthetic stock. The Tac-14 is meant to be extremely short, but retains the reliability and stopping power of previous models. It is chambered in 12 gauge, with a 14" barrel and a capacity of 4+1..
The Tac-14 DM is Similar to the regular Tac-14, varying only in the fact that it uses an external box magazine rather than the internal tube magazine in other models. This allows for the size of the Tac-14, but a capacity of 6+1..
The 870 DM is Matte Blue receiver finish with a synthetic stock. Differs from other 870 models with an external box magazine, similarly to the Tac-14 DM, allowing a capacity of 6+1..
The 200th Anniversary Edition is To celebrate the 200th Anniversary of Remington, two models were designed. One was a Wingmaster with some styling in the wood and a golden emblem on the bottom of the stock. The second was a limited edition Wingmaster that stopped production after 2016, with the same styling, but extended across the entirety of the stock and pump, and also extends to the receiver and barrel, with a golden ring on the end of the barrel. The emblem on the bottom is also a richer gold, possibly real gold, and there is a golden ribbon under the shell ejection reading "1816 Bicentennial 2016" along with a golden trigger, and a golden symbol of a hunter with a firearm in hand walking..

Here is System information for the Remington 870 American Pump-Action 12-Gauge Shotgun:
The Alternate Designation is Remington Model 870.
The Type is Pump-Action 12-Guage Shotgun.
The Manufacturer is Remington.
The In Service is 1950-Present.
The Action is Pump-Action.
The Feed System is 4+1, 5+1, 6+1, or 7+1 round internal tube magazine, or an external 6+1 box magazine.
The Sights is Bead, twin bead, adjustable open sights, or ghost ring (all iron sights). Also cantilever and receiver-mounts for scopes..

Here is Dimensions information for the Remington 870 American Pump-Action 12-Gauge Shotgun:
The Length is 946 mm.
The Barrel Length is 360 mm.
The Weight is 3.2 kg.

Here is Ammunition information for the Remington 870 American Pump-Action 12-Gauge Shotgun:
The Type is Shotfun Shell.
The Caliber is 12 gauge.
The Availabale Cartridges is 12 gauge, 16 gauge, 20 gauge, 28 gauge, or .410 bore.

