This document describes the 9K388 Igla-S (SA-24 Grinch) Russian Man-Portable Air-Defense Missile.

The Igla man-portable air-defense systems (MANPADS) are one of the best-selling arms. This system belongs to the second-generation MANPADS meeting the most stringent requirements to combat effectiveness in a harsh jamming environment. In 2004 the Russian army adopted the new MANPADS - Igla-S (sometimes called "Igla-Super") which is much more sophisticated and efficient in countering air threats. Serial production of the "Igla-S" ("Needle-S") portable antiaircraft missile complex (PAAMC) is conducted at the Degtyarev factory in the city of Kovrov. This newest PAAMC was awarded the State premium.

The "Igla-S" PAAMC by its capabilities is significantly superior to the "Igla" PAAMC, which entered service in 1983. The "Igla-S" tactical and technical characteristics enable it to destroy targets at altitudes up to 5-7 km. The limiting altitude of effective target destruction for the "Igla-S" complex is 3.5 km, according to Deputy Director-General of the enterprise Vasily Russu. According to him, foreign customers also display serious interest in the "Igla-S" PAAMC.



This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Brazil, Libya, Russian Federation, Slovenia, Syria, Thailand, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam.

Here is Variants information for the 9K388 Igla-S (SA-24 Grinch) Russian Man-Portable Air-Defense Missile:
The Igla-1E is Export version..
The Igla-1M is Improved version of 9K38 Igla. Entered service in Soviet Military during the late 1980s..
The Igla-1D is Igla-1D..
The Igla-1V is Air-launched version, mainly for combat helicopters..
The Igla-1N is A version with heavier warhead at the cost of a slight reduction in range and speed..
The Igla-1A is Export version..
The Strelets Igla-S / Igla is The Strelets is designed for remote automated firing of the Igla and Igla-S surface-to-air missile by single shot, ripple or in salvo. In service with Syria.
The 3M-47 Gibka is A turret for ships that is equipped with Igla missiles..
The Komar is Another turret for ships that is equipped with Igla missiles..

Here is System information for the 9K388 Igla-S (SA-24 Grinch) Russian Man-Portable Air-Defense Missile:
The Alternative Designation is Igla-S; NATO: SA-24 Grinch.
The Type is Man-Portable Air-Defense Missile System (MANPADS).
The Manufacturer is KB Mashinostroyeniya – Developer of the system.
The Family is 9K38 Igla.
The Type of Targets is Tactical aircraft, helicopter, UAV and cruise missile.
The Crew is 1.
The Igla-S Package is The Igla-s (SA-24 Grinch) System includes:
Combat equipment including the 9M342 missile and the 9P522 launching mechanism

- Maintenance equipment, including the 9V866-2 mobile test station and the 9F719-2 test set

- Training facilities

- Night firing devices.
The Reaction Time is 5-10 Seconds.

Here is Dimensions information for the 9K388 Igla-S (SA-24 Grinch) Russian Man-Portable Air-Defense Missile:
The Length, Missile is 1.574.
The Diameter, Missile is 72.
The Height is INA.
The Weight, Combat is See Missile Information.

Here is Missile Launcher information for the 9K388 Igla-S (SA-24 Grinch) Russian Man-Portable Air-Defense Missile of the Missile System:
The Name is 9P522 launching mechanism.
The Type is Portable Air-Defense Missile System (MANPADS).

Here is Missile information for the 9K388 Igla-S (SA-24 Grinch) Russian Man-Portable Air-Defense Missile of the Missile System:
The Name is 9M342 missile.
The Type is Portable Air-Defense Missile System (MANPADS).
The Length is 1.635 m.
The Diameter is 72.
The Weight, Full System is 19.
The Weight, Missile is 11.7.
The Weight, Warhead is 2.5.
The Warhead Type is Directed-energy
blast fragmentation.
The Fuze Type is Delayed impact,
magnetic and grazing.
The Target Engagement is 6.
The Speed is 570.
The Maximum Effective Range is 6,000.
The Maximum Target Speed, Receding is 400.
The Maximum Target Speed, Approaching is 320.
The Seeker Head Type is INA.
The Seeker Scanning is FM-modulated.
The Maximum Altitude is 3,500.
The Minimum Altitude is 10.
The Guidance System is Passive IR homing device and night vision (operating in the medium IR range).

