This document describes the NoDong-1 North Korean Medium-Range Ballistic Missile.

The NoDong is a medium-range ballistic missile indigenous to North Korea.  The missile has a maximum range of 1250 km, making it capable of striking all of South Korea and Japan.  The NoDong is liquid-fueled and can carry a payload of 1,200kg.  It is likely capable of carrying nuclear warheads.  As a road-mobile system, the missile can be launched from any location and is concealable, making it more resilient to a preemptive strike.  Believed to have been developed in the late 1980s as a part of a Soviet technological transfer, the NoDong is an enhanced version of the Soviet Scud-C missile.  However, the development of the NoDong was not entirely an independent North Korean effort, but a collaboration of Chinese and Russian assistance. A derivative of the NoDong was used as the first stage of the long-range Taepodong-1 when it was launched in 1998.  Although the rocket failed to reach orbit, the NoDong performed successfully as the first stage.
The capabilities of the NoDong-1 missile are such that it can only effectively be used against large, soft targets like cities, airports, or harbors.  Its range is sufficient to put parts of Japan within striking distance.  However, the accuracy is extremely low for modern missiles and likely ineffective against hardened military targets unless it was equipped with a nuclear warhead.
In 2006, it was estimated that North Korea’s inventory of NoDong-1 missiles was approximately 200.  By 2009, reports indicated that this stockpile may have reached 300 missiles.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Russian Federation.

Here is Variants information for the NoDong-1 North Korean Medium-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Shahab-3 (Iran) is The Shahab-3 (Persian: Šahâb 3‎; meaning "meteor") is a medium-range ballistic missile (MRBM) developed by Iran and based on the North Korean Nodong-1.  The Shahab-3 has a range of 1,000km, a MRBM variant can now reach 2,000km (can hit targets as far as Israel, Egypt, Romania, Bulgaria and Greece).  It was tested from 1998 to 2003 and added to the military arsenal on July 7, 2003, with an official unveiling by Ayatollah Khamenei on July 20.  With an accuracy of 140m CEP, the Shahab-3 missile is primarily effective against large, soft targets (like cities).  Given the Shahab-3’s payload capacity, it would likely be capable of delivering nuclear warheads.  According to the IAEA, Iran, in the early 2000s may have explored various fusing, arming, and firing systems to make the Shahab-3 more capable of reliably delivering a nuclear warhead..
The Ghauri (Pakistan) is The Ghauri–I (Urdu: غوری-ا‎; official codename: Hatf–5 Ghauri–I) is a land-based surface-to-surface medium-range ballistic missile, in current service with the Pakistan Army's Strategic Forces Command— a subordinate command of Strategic Plans Division.
Influenced from the design of Nodong-1 of North Korea, its extensive modification and engineering took place in Kahuta Research Laboratories (KRL) in 1990s with an objective of developing an electronic system that uses a single stage liquid fuel rocket motor to carry a payload of 700kg to a range of 1,500 km.  This is enough to reach most, if not all of India.  Two variants of the Ghauri were produced under the secretive missile research program started in 1987 and the development of a third variant was cancelled. The Ghauri-II uses increased motor assembly length and improved propellants for an increased range of 2,300km..

Here is System information for the NoDong-1 North Korean Medium-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Alternate Designation is No Dong, Nodong, Hwasong, Nodong-A, Hwasong-7, Rodong.
The Basing is Ground.
The Launch Platform(s) is TEL similar to the Russian-made MAZ-543 but with 10 wheels.
The Proliferation is Iran and Pakistan.  Estimates are that Pakistan obtained 12-25 NoDong missiles. 
 In regards to Iran, reports indicate that it received 150 NoDong 1/2 missiles.  Iraq, Eqypt, Syria, and Libya are all believed to have negotiated to obtain the missile at some point, though there are no confirmed exports to these countries..
The Effective Range is 900-1,300.
The Circular Error Probability is 2,000m (50m is GPS is integrated).
The Time Required to go from Travel to Ready to Fire is 60.

Here is Dimensions information for the NoDong-1 North Korean Medium-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Length is 16.2.
The Missile Weight is 16,500.
The Diameter is 1.36.
The Fin Span is INA.

Here is Payload information for the NoDong-1 North Korean Medium-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Warhead Type is Single warhead.
The Warhead Options is Nuclear, chemical, HE or sub-munitions.
The Nuclear Yield is Medium yield.
The Conventional Warhead Weight is 700-1,200.
The Conventional Warheads Available is HE, sub-munitions.
The Multiple Independently targetable Reentry Vehicle (MIRV) Capable is INA.
The Chemical Capable is Yes (thickened VX).

Here is Propulsion Characteristics information for the NoDong-1 North Korean Medium-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Engine is Single.
The Propellant is Liquid propellant.
The Speed is INA.

Here is Fire Control information for the NoDong-1 North Korean Medium-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Guidance System is Inertial.

