This document describes the Type 312 Class (Futi Class) Chinese Minesweeper.

The Chinese Type 312 class minesweeper was also known as Futi class. It was the first remote minesweeping drone, and was successfully used in the Vietnam War.

Although originally designed as a minesweeping drone, the Type 312 can also be manned by a 3-man crew as a regular minesweeper. The chief designer was Mr. Diao Haiguang (刁海光) of the 710th Institute, and from the start of the project to the completion of the first two units (two units are being built simultaneously), it only took less than two years when the first two units entered the service for the People's Liberation Army Navy. Due to its small size, this class is maintained on land and thus is in better conditions than most of other larger boats and ships in the reserve fleet. The drone can be remotely operated from more than 5 km (3.1 mi) away.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is Variants information for the Type 312 Class (Futi Class) Chinese Minesweeper:
The 46 FUTI Class MINESWEEPING DRONES (MSD)(Chinese Project No. 312) is 4 active; 42 in reserve.

Here is System information for the Type 312 Class (Futi Class) Chinese Minesweeper:
The Alternative Designation is Type 312 Class; Futi Class.
The Type is Minesweeper.
The Builder is Hudong-Zhonghua Shipyard.
The Crew is 3 total (for ferrying only).

Here is Dimensions information for the Type 312 Class (Futi Class) Chinese Minesweeper:
The Length is 20.9 m.
The Beam is 4.2 m.
The Draft is 1.3 m.
The Displacement, Standard is INA.
The Displacement, Full Load is 47 tons full load.

Here is Propulsion System information for the Type 312 Class (Futi Class) Chinese Minesweeper:
The Engine Name is 1 x Type 12-150C.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 300 total bhp.
The Maximum Range is 150 miles at 21.3 km/h (11.5 kts).
The Maximum Speed is 21.3 km/h (11.5 kts).

Here is Gun Weapon Systems information for the Type 312 Class (Futi Class) Chinese Minesweeper:
The Note is Machine gun mount available for manned operation.

Here is Fire Control Systems information for the Type 312 Class (Futi Class) Chinese Minesweeper:
The FCS Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is No.
The Battle Management System is No.

Here is Radar Systems information for the Type 312 Class (Futi Class) Chinese Minesweeper:
The Navigation Radar is INA.

Here is Protection information for the Type 312 Class (Futi Class) Chinese Minesweeper:
The Active Protection System is None.
The Countermeasures is No.
The NBC Water Washdown System is INA.

