This document describes the Unitree AlienGo Chinese Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).

The Unitree Aliengo, which was designed as a research platform, is a high-performance quadruped robot that can traverse uneven terrain, climb gradients of up to 21° and remain stable even if kicked, all at a maximum speed of 1.5 m/s for up to 4 hours on a single charge. An integrated depth perception vision system enables real-time 3D map creation and navigation planning, along with human posture recognition tracking and face recognition.

An impressive payload capacity of 10 kg, combined with a rich external interface and ROS support, makes sensor integration with this robot dog simple and straightforward. While incredible agility and a range of special movements, including backflips, creeping, and lateral locomotion, allow Aliengo to navigate complex environments.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is System information for the Unitree AlienGo Chinese Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Alternate Designation is Unitree AlienGo.
The Type is Robotic Dog Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).
The Manufacturer is Unitree Robitics.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Controller is 1.
The Communication Interface is 2 HDMI ports, 2 Ethernet ports, 2 USB 3.0 ports, 1 USB 2.0 port, 1 RS485 port.
The Software Compatibility is C/C++, ROS, etc..
The Depth Cameras is 2 x depth cameras:
Global shutter
Wide angle
Minimum depth: 11 cm
Resolution: 1280 x 720 max..
The Visual Odometer Camera is 1 x visual odometer camera:
Highly optimised V-SLAM
Closed-loop offset: less than 1%
Detection time: less than 6 ms
Fisheye lens and near-hemispherical 163±5° field of view.
The Facial Recognition is Yes.
The 2D and 3D Mapping is Yes.
The Payload Capacity is 1-12 kg.

Here is Dimensions information for the Unitree AlienGo Chinese Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Length is 640 mm.
The Width is 310 mm.
The Height is 600 mm.
The Weight is 21 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Unitree AlienGo Chinese Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Lithium battery.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 6 km/h.
The Obstacle Height is 18 cm.
The Ground Clearance is 35 cm.
The Climbing Angle is 25° to 30°.
The Endurance is In normal use: 210 min.
Permanent movement: 120 min.
Quiescent: 270 min.
On standby: 320 min..

