This document describes the Benelli M4 Super 90 (M1014) Italian 12-Gauge Semi-Automatic Shotgun.

This is probably one of the most respected foreign shotguns in Russia. Italy’s Benelli M-4 Super 90 is famed not only for its ergonomics and reliability, but also for its beauty.

It’s been adopted by the U.S. military and law enforcement units. It received an adjustable stock and Picatinny rails that allows operatives to install various tactical gear to increase operational mobility.

The guns are loved by U.S. marines and have become a popular weapon on the civilian arms market in Russia.

Yet the gun is pretty expensive compared to Russian weapons of this type - sanctions as well as customs duty have increased the cost of the M-4 to nearly $3,000, which is a pretty hefty price tag, especially when you can bag a Saiga-12 for around $400.

The M4 was the first gas-operated shotgun produced by Benelli. Its function is designed around an entirely new method called the "auto regulating gas operated" (ARGO) system. The short-stroke design uses two stainless-steel self-cleaning pistons located just ahead of the chamber to function opposite the rotating bolt, thereby eliminating the need for the complex mechanisms found on other gas-actuated automatics. The ARGO incorporates only four parts: two symmetrical shrouds containing two small steel gas pistons.

Additionally, the weapon is self-regulating for use with cartridges of varying length and power levels. It can fire 2.75 (70 mm) and 3-inch (76 mm) shells of differing power-levels without any operator adjustments and in any combination. Low-power rounds, such as less-lethal rubber pellets, must be cycled manually.

The sights are military-style ghost ring and are adjustable in the field using only a cartridge rim. The MIL-STD-1913 Picatinny sight rail on top allows use of both conventional and night-vision sights, while retaining use of the original sights.

he modular basis of the shotgun means many of its features can be reconfigured as needed. It allows a user to quickly exchange the various assembly groups (barrel, buttstock, forearm, etc.) without the use of tools.

Preliminary testing of the M4 suggests a high level of reliability. It can reliably function for at least 25,000 rounds without replacement of any major parts.[2][3] The steel components of the weapon feature a matte black phosphated corrosion resistant finish while the aluminum parts are matte hard-anodized. These finishes reduce the weapon's visibility during night operations.

The weapon requires little maintenance and operates in all climates and weather conditions

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Australia, Belarus, Croatia, France, Georgia, Greece, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Libya, Lithuania, Malaysia, Malta, Portugal, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Here is Dimensions information for the Benelli M4 Super 90 (M1014) Italian 12-Gauge Semi-Automatic Shotgun:
The Length is 885.
The Barrel Length is 470.
The Weight is 3.82.

Here is Ammunition information for the Benelli M4 Super 90 (M1014) Italian 12-Gauge Semi-Automatic Shotgun:
The Caliber is 12 Gauge.
The Basic Load is 5+1 (civilian) or 7+1 (Military, LE) internal tube (Using 2.75 shells) magazine.

