This document describes the Luwu Chinese 8x8 Amphibious Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).

The Luwu Chinese 8x8 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) has been designed as a reconnaissance and detection platform but can also provide fire support for protection.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is System information for the Luwu Chinese 8x8 Amphibious Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Alternative Designation is Luwu Chinese 8x8 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).
The Type is Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).
The Manufacturer is Guangzhou Hiage Communication Group Co Ltd. (Hagri Communication).
The Configuration is 8x8.
The Mission is The Luwu Chinese 8x8 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) has been designed as a reconnaissance and detection platform but can also provide fire support for protection..
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Control is The platform can recognise various control modes such as remote control, voice command, gesture command and well as autonomous leader follow. The platform can also operate completely independently..
The Software is INA.
The Operating Temperature is –40 to +40°C.
The Maximum Payload on Land is 521 kg.
The Maximum Payload on Water is 454 kg.
The Towing Capacity is 818 kg.

Here is Dimensions information for the Luwu Chinese 8x8 Amphibious Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Length is 2.95 m.
The Width is 1.55 m.
The Height is INA.
The Weight is 571 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Luwu Chinese 8x8 Amphibious Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Electric.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Range is INA.
The Maximum Land Speed is 45 km/h.
The Maximum Amphibious Speed is 4 km/h.
The Endurance is INA.

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Luwu Chinese 8x8 Amphibious Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Note is The Luwu Chinese 8x8 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) was displayed at Airshow China fitted with a 12.7 mm machine gun (MG) and four anti-tank missiles..

Here is Protection information for the Luwu Chinese 8x8 Amphibious Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is INA.

