This document describes the Spector M1 (Meridian) Ukrainian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The Spector M1 (Meridian) Ukrainian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) is a mini-UAV designed for surveillance and reconnaissance missions. It is also designed to have a low visual signature and high aerodynamic properties.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Ukraine.

Here is System information for the Spector M1 (Meridian) Ukrainian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is Spector M1; Meridian.
The Type is Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is OJSC ‘Meridian' n. S. P. Korolyov.
The Autonomy is Automatic, semi-automatic and manual control modes..
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Composition is A complete system is comprised of; one to three AVs, a ground station, a radio control panel, a plug-in battery kit, and an antenna array..
The Guidance System is Automatic, semi-automatic, and manual control modes. Advanced ground control station..
The Payload Capacity is 1.5 kg.
The Mission Payloads is Day/night camera, IR camera, multispectral camera, high resolution photo camera, and radiation sensors..
The Launching System is Hand-launched..
The Recovery System is Parachute landing or belly landing..
The Note is Spectator-M1 reported to be in service with the Ukrainian State Border Guard Service.

Here is Dimensions information for the Spector M1 (Meridian) Ukrainian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is 1.345 m.
The Wingspan is 3.02 m.
The Height is INA.
The Maximum Takeoff Weight is 7 kg.
The Backpack Dimensions is 1,300 × 400 × 200 mm.

Here is Automotive information for the Spector M1 (Meridian) Ukrainian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is 1 × Electric motor that driving a tractor propeller..
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 120 km/h.
The Cruising Speed is 40 km/h.
The Service Ceiling is 2,000 m.
The Radius of Operation is 20 km.
The Endurance is 180 min.
The Maximum range is 50 km.

