This document describes the CR500 (Golden Eagle) Chinese Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The CR500 (Golden Eagle) Chinese Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV)  is a multi-role rotary-wing unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) designed and developed by the Institute of Computer Application Technology of NORINCO. The CR500 is intended to operate in both civil and military roles conducting intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) and can also be equipped for strike operations, situational awareness, humanitarian assistance, and disaster relief operations. The AV is compatible to operate alongside tanks, infantry fighting vehicles, and self-propelled artilleries.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is System information for the CR500 (Golden Eagle) Chinese Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is CR500; Golden Eagle.
The Type is Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is NORINCO.
The Autonomy is Semi-Autonomous, the system can be controlled by truck-mounted ground control stations..
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Payload Capacity is The CR500 has capacity for a range of payload combinations, including electronic warfare (EW) and communication relay sensor with equipment mounted on the wing hardpoints. The AV is equipped with a chin-mounted gimbal stabilized EO/IR turret..
The Maximum Payload Capacity is 160 kg.
The Launching System is Vertical Take-Off and Landing (VTOL).
The Recovery System is Vertical Take-Off and Landing (VTOL).

Here is Dimensions information for the CR500 (Golden Eagle) Chinese Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is INA.
The Wingspan is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Maximum Takeoff Weight is 470 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the CR500 (Golden Eagle) Chinese Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is INA.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is INA.
The Service Ceiling is INA.
The Maximum Distance is 200 km.
The Endurance is 8 hours.

Here is Armament information for the CR500 (Golden Eagle) Chinese Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Note is For combat roles, the CR500 can be fitted with machine guns or either two Blue Arrow 9 (BA-9) anti-tank-guided missiles or eight smaller Blue Arrow 5 (BA-5) missiles..

