This document describes the Mi-14 (Haze) Russian Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) Helicopter.

The Mi-14 (Haze) Russian Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) Helicopter is a naval land-based helicopter, derived from the Mi-8 Hip, which is configured primarily for anti-submarine warfare (ASW). It also serves in minesweeping and search-and-rescue (SAR) roles. 

Modifications from the basic Mi-8 configuration include the provision of a hull that has an upturned, scalloped front; a tail boom float; retractable landing gear; port-side anti-torque rotor; and shortened engine nacelles. A large radome holding a search radar is located under the nose and is fully submerged when afloat. The ventral weapons bay is enclosed by two sets of split doors separated by a narrow central keel.

Formal development of anti-submarine warfare (ASW) version of the Mil Mi-8 transport helicopter was authorized by the Soviet Communist Party Central Committee and Council of Ministers in April 1965, with the objective of replacing the Mil Mi-4 in the short-range, shore-based anti-submarine role. The new helicopter was required to have an endurance of 2 hours on station at a radius of 222 kilometers (120 nmi; 138 mi) from the base.

The new design (with the internal designation V-14) differed from the Mi-8 in having a boat-like hull similar to the Sea King, allowing it to operate off the water, and a retractable four-point undercarriage,[N 1] with the mainwheels retracting into large sponsons on the rear of the fuselage. The helicopter was to be powered by two Klimov TV3-117MT turboshaft engines. A watertight weapons bay is fitted to the centreline of the fuselage allowing internal carriage of a single torpedo or eight depth charges, while a radome housing a search radar is fitted beneath the nose.

The first prototype V-14, converted from a Mi-8 and powered by the older and less powerful Klimov TV2-117 engines, flew on 1 August 1967. Development was slowed by problems with the helicopter's avionics and due to reliability problems with the TV3-117 engines, with production at Kazan not starting until 1973, and the helicopter (now designated Mi-14) entering service on 11 May 1976.

In January 2016, Russian Helicopters confirmed to Russian News Agency TASS that no final decision to revive production had been taken, but market demand, feasibility studies – including with Moscow's defense ministry – and funding sources were under review. The program remains a “priority” for Russian Helicopters. The company suggested the Mi-14 would appeal to civil operators in Russia's far north and those supplying the oil and gas industry, alongside the nation's armed forces. Out of the almost 300 Mi-14s produced at Kazan Helicopters between 1973 and 1986, it is estimated that just 44 examples remain in active service.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Congo, Georgia, Libya, North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Poland, Syria, Ukraine, Yemen.

Here is Variants information for the Mi-14 (Haze) Russian Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) Helicopter:
The V-14 is Prototype of the Mi-14 helicopter..
The Mi-14PL Haze-A is This is the anti-submarine warfare version. See above for electronics fits. It has an internal weapons bay that can carry a single AT-1 torpedo, PLAB series depth bombs, APR-2 high-speed torpedoes or nuclear weapons (the last two are only carried in Russian Mi-14s)..
The Mi-14BT Haze-B is This is a mine countermeasures version, with a fuselage strake and pod on the starboard side of cabin..
The Mi-14PS Haze-C is This search-and-rescue variant has an enlarged entry door on the left side of the cabin; strake and fuselage pod; retractable rescue hoist; and a large retractable searchlight on the starboard side of the nose (some have a second central nose-mounted searchlight)..
The Mi-1413T Haze-B is This variant was designed for mine countermeasures. Initial operational capability was reached in the early 1980s..
The Mi-14PL/R is This is a conversion to the Mi-14PL helicopter conducted by the Polish navy to adopt it for the search-and-rescue role..

Here is System information for the Mi-14 (Haze) Russian Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) Helicopter:
The Alternative Designation is Mi-14; NATO: Haze.
The Type is Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) Helicopter.
The Flight Crew is 2 (pilot, co-pilot).
The ASW Crew is 2 (sonar operator, MAD operator, as needed).
The Passengers is 20 (during rescue operations, no ASW crew).
The Blades, Main Rotor is 5.
The Blades, Tail Rotor is 3.
The Number of Engines is 2.
The Number of Hard Points is INA.

Here is Dimensions information for the Mi-14 (Haze) Russian Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) Helicopter:
The Length is 25.30 m.
The Height is 6.90 m.
The Main Rotor Diameter is 21.29 m.
The Disc Area is 356 m sq.
The Empty Weight is 11,750 kg.
The Maximum Takeoff Weight is 14,000 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Mi-14 (Haze) Russian Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) Helicopter:
The Engine Name is 2 x Klimov TV3-117MT.
The Engine Type is Turboshaft.
The Engine Power is 1,950 shaft hp each.
The Maximum Speed is 230 km/h.
The Cruise Speed is 205 km/h.
The Ceiling Hover Out of Ground Effect is 3,500 m.
The Ceiling Hover In Ground Effect is 1,600 m.
The Maximum Range with Maximum Payload is 305 km.
The Cruise Range is 800 km.
The Maximum Range with Maximum Fuel is 1,135 km.

Here is Communications information for the Mi-14 (Haze) Russian Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) Helicopter:
The HF Radio is 1 x R-842-M HF receiver.
The VHF Receiver is 1 x R-860 VHF receiver.

Here is Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) System information for the Mi-14 (Haze) Russian Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) Helicopter:
The Sonobouys is 1 x Baku system (up to 36 RGB-NM buoys).
The Magnetic Anomaly is 1 x APM-60 detector.
The ASW Equipment is Hydro-acoustic buoys and dye packs can be carried in the bomb bay and radar beacon buoys.

Here is Torpedo System information for the Mi-14 (Haze) Russian Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) Helicopter:
The Torpedoes is 1 x AT-1 or APR-2 torpedoes.

Here is Bombing System information for the Mi-14 (Haze) Russian Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) Helicopter:
The Bombs is 1 x nuclear depth bomb or 8 x depth charges in place of torpedoes.

Here is Radar Systems information for the Mi-14 (Haze) Russian Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) Helicopter:
The Navigation Radar is 1 x Initziativa-2M/ME Doppler navigation in radome underneath nose.

Here is Sonor System information for the Mi-14 (Haze) Russian Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) Helicopter:
The Dipping Sonar is 1 x Oka-2 dipping sonar.

Here is Protection information for the Mi-14 (Haze) Russian Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) Helicopter:
The Stealth Properties is None.
The Add on Armor is INA.
The Heat Signature Reduction is INA.
The EW Counter Measures/CCM is INA.
The Counter Measures (Chaff/Flares) is INA.

