This document describes the ZALA 421-24 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The new ZALA 421-24 quadrocopter unmanned system has a compact folding design and can remain invisible in the air due to low acoustic and visual visibility.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is System information for the ZALA 421-24 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is ZALA 421-24.
The Type is Unmanned Aerial Vehicle UAV).
The Manufacturer is Zala Aero Group.
The Mission is The new ZALA 421-24 quadrocopter unmanned system has a compact folding design and can remain invisible in the air due to low acoustic and visual visibility..
The Features is Feature of ZALA 421-24 system:
Compact foldable design;
On-board computer;
Quick start – no more than 120 seconds; Work from a driving vehicle
Low acoustic and visibility
Application in a wide range of weather conditions;
Control via a manual controller;
A quick-detachable receiving antenna is made in the form factor of a standard car antenna;
Interference-proof duplicated data transmission channel;
Ability to quickly replace the payload;
Target retention and tracking;
Ability to work with individual positioning devices (ZALA Beacon);
Remote data retrieval from the storage device..
The Controller is The ZALA 421-24 is controlled by a manual controller and can be operated from a driving vehicle. The ease of operation of the UAV allows you to use the unmanned system by one person..
The Operating Temperature is -40°С … +50°С.
The Maximum Payload Capacity is INA.
The Launch Method is INA.
The Landing Method is INA.

Here is Dimensions information for the ZALA 421-24 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is 530 mm.
The Wingspan is 550 mm.
The Height is 190 mm.
The Takeoff Weight is 3.5 kg.
The Maximum Payload Capacity is INA.

Here is Automotive information for the ZALA 421-24 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Electric.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is INA.
The Maximum Range is 1.5 km.
The Maximum Altitude is INA.
The Operational Altitude is 0 - 500 m.
The Endurance is 30 min.

