This document describes the Meerkat-SA British Electronic Support Measures (ESM) and Electronic Intelligence (ELINT) System.

Meerkat-SA is a network of high reliability ESM-ELINT sensors under remote control that detects, identifies and locates all radar emissions.
It provides a fully automatic, real-time national air and surface picture of radar activity

Meerkat-SA consists of a number of remote fixed site sensors that connect to a central command & control site via a national Wide Area Network. At this site operators control the remote sensors and local processors that identify the intercepts, fuse the data and maintain a dynamic Electronic Order Of Battle picture.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: South Africa, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

Here is System information for the Meerkat-SA British Electronic Support Measures (ESM) and Electronic Intelligence (ELINT) System:
The Alternative Designation is Meerkat-SA.
The Type is Electronic Support Measures (ESM) and Electronic Intelligence (ELINT) System.
The Family is INA.
The Crew is INA.
The System Features is 24hr, 365 days/year strategic 
 Surveillance and Analysis

·Complements Radar Recognised Air 
 and Surface picture: Identifies targets

·Early warning: Much longer detection 
 range than target radars

·Automatic update of EOB

·Effective under local EMCON 
 conditions

·Very high reliability + no on-site 
 operators = low through-life costs

·Scaleable: up to 12 sensors.
The Sensor Features is ·Dual receivers and antennas for 
 concurrent Surveillance and Analysis

·Optional digital receiver for increased 
 sensitivity and in-depth ELINT 
 collection & analysis.
The Surveillance Objectives is ·Monitoring cross-border activity:
 -assess possible military or political 
 change


-identify enemy weaknesses

-counter intentions of enemies

-detect incursions into EEZs

·Technical ELINT Collection (Digital 
 Receiver Option) - precision 
  parameter measurement,including 
  “fingerprinting”

-track movements, and/or assess the 
  maintenance states of, specific 
  instances of selected emitters

-maintain national EW Intelligence 
  Library Data Base for programming 
  own Radar Warning, ESM and ECM 
  systems (land, sea and air)..

Here is Dimensions information for the Meerkat-SA British Electronic Support Measures (ESM) and Electronic Intelligence (ELINT) System:
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Weight, Combat is INA.

Here is Automotive information for the Meerkat-SA British Electronic Support Measures (ESM) and Electronic Intelligence (ELINT) System:
The Prime Mover is INA.

