This document describes the Matra R.530 French Short-Range Air-to-Air Missile.

The Matra R.530 is a French medium to short range air-to-air missile. It was available in infrared homing and semi active radar homing as the main armament of the Mirage III which was able to carry a single missile in the centerline, the Mirage F1, which carried two (one of each type) under the wings, and the F-8 Crusader in French Navy service.

On 29 November 1966, an Israeli Air Force Dassault Mirage III shot down two Egyptian MiG-19s which were trying to intercept an Israeli reconnaissance Piper J-3 Cub in Israeli airspace. The first MiG was destroyed with a R.530 fired from less than a mile away, marking the first aerial kill for the French made missile. The second MiG-19 was destroyed with cannon fire.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Cameroon, Colombia, Egypt, France, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, Pakistan, Qatar, South Africa, Spain, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of).

Here is System information for the Matra R.530 French Short-Range Air-to-Air Missile:
The  is .
The  is .
The  is .

Here is Missile information for the Matra R.530 French Short-Range Air-to-Air Missile of the Matra R.530 Short-Range Air-to-Air Missile:
The Name is Matra R.530.
The Type is Short-range air-to-air missile.
The Basic Load is 2.
The Proliferation is Argentina
 Australia
 Brazil
 Cameroon
 Colombia
 France
 Egypt
 Iraq
 Israel
 Jordan
 Lebanon
 Morocco
 Pakistan
 South Africa
 Spain
 Venezuela
 Qatar.
The Manufacturer is Matra.
The In Service is 1962-Present.
The Length is 3.28 m.
The Diameter is 263 mm.
The Weight is 192 kg.
The Engine is two stage solid rocket, Hotchkiss-Brandt/SNPE Antoinette rocket
83.3 kN for 2.7 s + 6.5 s cruise.
The Wingspan is 1.1.
The Operational Range is 1.5 to 20 km.
The Speed is Mach 2.7.
The Guidance System is Semi active radar homing and Infrared homing[.
The Launch Platform is Dassault Mirage F1
Dassault Mirage III [1]
F-8 Crusader.

