This document describes the Caterpiller 120M American 6x6 Motor Grader.

The Caterpillar 120M is a motor grader, used by the US military. The Caterpillar company does not manufacture any special military version of the 120M grader. However after some modifications, such as flat military paint, blackout lights, transport provisions, keyless ignition, and other, this road grading machine can be used for military roles. Though it is claimed that the militarized 120M grader has more reliable performance in extreme weather, mainly due to optional equipment. In 2011 it was announced that more than 1 000 of these motor graders will be delivered to the US Army, Navy and Marine Corps. Deliveries commenced in 2012. It replaced in service the old Caterpillar 130G grader, which has been in service for more than 30 years.

   The Caterpillar 120M grader has 3 axles. Graders delivered to the US military have an all-wheel drive system for improved mobility. Engine and cab are situated above the rear axles. There is a wide blade in between the 1st and 2nd axles.

   Actually the Caterpillar 120M grader has rather humble performance comparing with many other commercial graders. Still though it significantly outperforms the old Caterpillar 130G military grader. There is a 30 years difference in technology between these two machines. The 120M is fitted with modern grade control technologies for precise grading. It is also fitted with diagnostics equipment and is easier to maintain.

   The Caterpillar 120M is used to create a flat surface during the grading process. Graders create fine "finish grade", while the "rough grading" is performed by bulldozers, scrappers, or other engineering vehicles. The Caterpillar 120M is used for construction and maintenance of dirt and gravel roads. This machine is also used to prepare the base course to create a wide flat surface for paved roads. It can also produce inclined surface to give cant to roads, or produce drainage ditches. Additional front blade and rear ripper can be attached.

   This militarized grader can be used for construction of airfields, landing zones, defensive berms, anti-tank ditches and for other military earthmoving tasks.

   The operator has good visibility. Overall working environment of the operator is significantly better than on the previous 130G model. The new grader has joystick controls, air conditioned cab. Furthermore vibration levels inside the cab are much lower. An armored cab can be installed for operation in various hotspots. It provides protection for the operator against small arms fire, artillery shell splinters and various blasts. This grader carries no defensive armament, as it typically operates in rear areas.

   This construction machine is powered by a Caterpillar C6.6 diesel engine, developing 138-, 153- and 173 hp depending on optional equipment and grading mode. Number in the designation actually denotes a 6.6-liter displacement of the engine. There are 8 forward and 6 reverse gears. This machine has a 6x6 configuration with an all-wheel drive. The older Caterpillar 130G had 6x4 configuration. Unusual feature of this new machine is that it can make a faster turn by adjusting the outside front tire speed up to twice faster than the inside tire. This significantly reduces turning radius. Another unusual feature of the Caterpillar 120M is that this machine can disengage transmission form the rear axles. This feature was originally designed for precise grading. However this feature also allows the machine to return to base on its front wheels with various transmission problems.

   A number of options are available for these militarized graders. These include a cold starting kit (which allows to start the machine at -40°C), deep fording kit and some other. Optional equipment installed on these graders differs depending on the US military branch. For example US Navy machines have some optional equipment, that is not present on US Army machines.

   The Caterpillar C120M grader can be airlifted by a C-130 Hercules tactical transport aircraft with minimum of preparation.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Australia, United States of America.

Here is System information for the Caterpiller 120M American 6x6 Motor Grader:
The Alternative Designation is Caterpillar 120M Grader.
The Type is Motor Grader.
The Crew is 1.
The In-Dash Instrument Cluster is The instrument panel, with easy-to-read,
high-visibility gauges and warning
lamps, keeps the operator aware of
critical system information..

Here is Dimensions information for the Caterpiller 120M American 6x6 Motor Grader:
The Blade Base is 8.3 ft (2.53 m).
The Front Ground Clearance is 1.9 ft (0.58 m).
The Ground Clearance - Rear Axle is 13.6 in (34.54 cm).
The Height - Exhaust Stack is 112.4 in (285.5 cm).
The Height - Front Axle Center is 22.5 in (57.15 cm).
The Height - Top of Cab is 10.8 ft (3.29 m).
The Height - Top of Cylinders is 113.7 in (288.8 cm).
The Height to Top of Isomount Cab is 10.8 ft (3.29 m).
The Length - Between Tandem Axles is 59.5 in (151.13 cm).
The Length - Counterweight to Ripper is 389.3 in (988.82 cm).
The Length - Front Axle to Mid Tandem is 232.8 in (591.31 cm).
The Length - Front Axle to Moldboard is 98.9 in (251.21 cm).
The Length - Front Tire to Rear of Machine is 334.1 in (848.61 cm).
The Overall Length is 27.9 ft (8.5 m).
The Rear Ground Clearance is 1.2 ft (0.37 m).
The Wheelbase is 19.4 ft (5.91 m).
The Width Over Tires is 8.2 ft (2.5 m).

Here is Automotive information for the Caterpiller 120M American 6x6 Motor Grader:
The Engine Name is Caterpillar C6.6 diesel.
The Engine Power is 138 - 173 hp.
The Max Road Speed is 45 km/h.
The Range is INA.
The All Wheel Drive (AWD) System. is The optional AWD system utilizes
dedicated left and right pumps for
precise hydraulic control. The infinitely
variable pumps and motors maximize
torque in each gear delivering the most
power to the ground in the industry and
increasing productivity in the most
demanding applications..
The  is .
The  is .

Here is Controls information for the Caterpiller 120M American 6x6 Motor Grader:
The Advanced Joystick Controls is Two electro-hydraulic joysticks reduce
hand and wrist movement as much as
78% compared to conventional lever
controls for greatly enhanced operator
efficiency. The intuitive pattern is
easy to learn and provides the precise
implement control you expect from
Caterpillar..
The Auxiliary Pod and Ripper Control is The optional ripper control and auxiliary
control pod are ergonomically positioned
to allow simple, comfortable operation
for the multiple hydraulic options..
The Controls and Switches is Reliable, longlife rocker switches are located on the
right side cab post and front instrument
cluster, within easy reach for the operator..
The Intuitive Steering Control is The 120M
introduces a breakthrough in joystick
steering control. This technology
creates a direct relationship between
the lean angle of the joystick and the
turning angle of the steer tires..
The Electronic Throttle Control is Electronic
Throttle Control (ETC) provides the
operator with easy, precise, and consistent
throttle operation. An automatic and
manual mode on a single switch offers
flexibility for different applications and
operator preferences..
The Left Joystick Functions is The left
joystick primarily controls the machine
direction and speed.
1 – Steering: Lean joystick left and right
2 – Articulation: Twist joystick left
and right
3 – Articulation Return to Center:
Yellow thumb button
4 – Wheel Lean: Two black thumb
buttons
5 – Direction: Index trigger shifts
transmission to forward, neutral or
reverse
6 – Gear Selection: Two yellow thumb
buttons upshift and downshift
7 – Left moldboard lift cylinder:
Push joystick to lower, pull joystick
to raise
7 – Left moldboard lift cylinder float:
Pushing joystick through detent
engages float.
The Right Joystick Functions is The right
joystick primarily controls the Drawbar,
Circle and Moldboard functions.
1 – Right moldboard lift cylinder:
Push joystick to lower, pull joystick
to raise
7 – Right moldboard lift cylinder float:
Pushing joystick through detent
engages float
2 – Moldboard slide: Lean joystick left
and right
3 – Circle turn: Twist joystick left
and right
4 – Moldboard tip: Thumb switch fore
and aft
5 – Drawbar center shift: Thumb switch
left and right
6 – Electronic Throttle Control: Trigger
switch is resume and decrement
7 – Differential Lock/Unlock:
Yellow button.
The Ripper Control Pod is Infinitely variable
roller switches control the rear ripper
and/or front lift group (when equipped),
for easy and comfortable control..
The Programmable Auxiliary Hydraulic Pod. is Four fingertip controls and a
mini joystick maximize hydraulic
control flexibility, accommodating
up to six hydraulic circuits. Individual
functions are easily programmable
through Cat ET to meet the
configuration you need.
The optional auxiliary hydraulic pod is
provided in addition to the ripper control
pod when the machine is configured
with three or more auxiliary functions..
The Smooth Shifting Transmission is The 120M
combines several key innovations to
ensure smooth, powerful shifts throughout
the gear range..
The Electronically Controlled Shifting is The full Electronic Clutch Pressure
Control (ECPC) system optimizes
inching modulation and smooths shifting
between all gears and directional
changes. This provides outstanding
control and also extends the life of the
transmission by reducing stress on gears..
The Controlled Throttle Shifting is This standard
feature helps to smooth directional and
gear changes without use of the
inching pedal..

Here is Structure information for the Caterpiller 120M American 6x6 Motor Grader:
The Front Frame Structure is The 120M front
frame is a formed structural carbon steel
tube. Advanced fabrication technology
significantly reduces the number of weld
joints, which more evenly distributes
stress loads. The result is a robust
machine that delivers the durability
you expect from Caterpillar..
The Rear Frame Structure. is The box-sectioned
hitch design helps resist torsion loads
and ensure structural durability.
The integrated bumper ties the rear
frame together as a single, solid unit,
so the frame can withstand heavy-duty
applications such as ripping and
winging snow..
The Articulation Hitch is A large tapered
roller bearing at the lower pivot carries
loads evenly and smoothly. This joint is
sealed to prevent contamination in this
critical area.
A mechanical locking pin prevents
frame articulation to help ensure safety
when servicing or transporting the
machine..
The Circle Construction is Our one-piece
forged steel circle is built to stand up to
high stress loads and provide structural
durability. The front 240° of circle teeth
are hardened to reduce wear and ensure
component reliability..
The Drawbar Construction is The A-frame
drawbar features a tubular design for
high strength and optimum durability..
The Aggressive Blade Angle is With a long
wheelbase the operator can obtain
aggressive moldboard angles, so material
rolls more freely along the length of the
blade. This is particularly helpful when
handling very dry materials or cohesive
soils. Better material control gets the
job done faster, requires less power
and saves fuel..

Here is Hydraulics information for the Caterpiller 120M American 6x6 Motor Grader:
The Advanced Electro-Hydraulic System. is The 120M incorporates a state-of-the-art
electro-hydraulic system. This technology
is the foundation for revolutionary
changes of the machine and implement
controls. Advanced joystick controls
provide unmatched controllability with
precise, predictable hydraulic movements
and the reliability you expect from
Caterpillar..
The Blade Float is Blade float is built into the
blade lift control valves and is optional
for some auxiliary hydraulic functions.
The blade float feature allows the blade
to move freely under its own weight.
By floating both cylinders, the blade
can follow the contours of the road
when removing snow. Floating only
one cylinder permits the toe of the
blade to follow a hard surface while
the operator controls the slope with
the other lift cylinder..
The Independent Oil Supply is Large, separate
hydraulic oil supply prevents crosscontamination and provides proper oil
cooling, which reduces heat build-up
and extends component life..
The Load Sensing Hydraulics (PPPC is The time proven load-sensing system
and the advanced Proportional Priority
Pressure-Compensating (PPPC, or
“triple-PC”) electro-hydraulic valves
on the 120M are designed to provide
superior implement control and enhanced
machine performance in all applications.
Continuous matching of hydraulic flow
and pressure to power demands creates
less heat and reduces power
consumption..
The Cat® XT™ Hose is Caterpillar hose
technology allows high pressures for
maximum power and reduced downtime.
Intelligent routing minimizes exposure
to damage. Hose clips prevent hose
rubbing and excessive vibration for
lower owning and operating costs..
The Balanced Flow is Hydraulic flow is
proportioned to ensure all implements
operate simultaneously with little effect
on the engine or implement speeds.
If demand exceeds pump capacity,
all cylinder velocities are reduced by
the same ratio. The result is improved
productivity in all applications..
The Consistent and Predictable Movement is PPPC valves have different flow rates
for the head (red) and rod ends (blue)
of the cylinder. This ensures consistent
extension and retraction speeds for
each cylinder, and gives the operator a
consistent and predictable response every
time an implement control is moved..

