This document describes the YLC-2 (LLQ303) Chinese 3D Air Surveillance and Acquisition Radar.

The YLC-2 radar (domestic designation: LLQ303, formerly known as 385) is a three-dimensional main guidance and surveillance radar developed by the Nanjing Research Institute of Electronics Technology.

In the mid-2000s, an improved version labeled YLC-2A was deployed to the PLA. Equipped with a new Giga-flops digital signal processor, it is capable of Digital Moving Target Indication (DMTI) and Constant false alarm rate (CFAR) processing. An S-band variation called YLC-2U with similar capabilities was also developed for SAM guidance. Both of these advanced YLC-2 radars have been specifically designed to counter stealth fighters such as F-22, with a claimed range of up to 200km even in heavy ECM environment.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China, Myanmar, Pakistan.

Here is Variants information for the YLC-2 (LLQ303) Chinese 3D Air Surveillance and Acquisition Radar:
The YLC-2A is Upgraded version..
The YLC-2V is Self-Propelled Version..

Here is System information for the YLC-2 (LLQ303) Chinese 3D Air Surveillance and Acquisition Radar:
The Alternative Designation is YLC-2.
The Type is 3D Air Surveillance and Acquisition Radar.
The Crew is INA.
The Chassis is INA.
The Band is L - band.
The Power Output is 5.5 KW.
The Peak Power is 85 KW.
The Detection Range is >500 km.
The Accuracy Range is 200 m.
The Azimuth is 3600.
The Resolution Range is <100 m.
The MTI Improvement Factor is 44 dB.
The Antenna Sidelobe Level is -35 dB.
The Additional Features is *Phased array system and pencil beam scan technology
*Wide band low sidelobe planar array antenna
*Monopulse angle measurement
*Frequency diversity
*Distributed high power solid-state transmitter
*Advanced programmable digital signal processing.

Here is Dimensions information for the YLC-2 (LLQ303) Chinese 3D Air Surveillance and Acquisition Radar:
The Length is 9.0 m.
The Width is 7.0 M.
The Height is INA.
The Weight, Combat is INA.

