This document describes the HMEV Australian 4x4 Backhoe Loader.

The HMEV (High Mobility Engineering Vehicle) is a wheeled engineering vehicle capable of traveling at high speed on/off road. The HMEV was selected by the Australian Army and 27 HMEVs were delivered. In December 2001 the US Army selected the HMEV vehicle for its IHMEE (Interim High Mobility Engineering Excavator) program ordering up to 62 HMEV vehicles. Canada, the United Arab Emirates and some NATO countries are evaluating the HMEV vehicle.

The HMEV features self-deployment, cross-country, capability, highway speed of 100 km/h, diesel engine rated at 185-hp, earth moving functions, trailer towing of up to 8,000 kg, air-conditioning, lightweight armor, air transportable capability (C-130 and CH-47) and stores for an optional operator.

The vehicle was selected by the US Army under the designation Interim High Mobility Engineering Excavators or IHMEE. Up to 40 IHMEEs will be procured by the US Army with final deliveries scheduled in 2004. ADI hopes that this purchase boosts international orders.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Australia.

Here is System information for the HMEV Australian 4x4 Backhoe Loader:
The Alternative Designation is HMEV.
The Type is Backhoe Loader.
The Manufacturer is Thales Australia.
The Crew is 1.
The Note is The HMEV is designed to dig combat emplacements, trenches, firing positions, fill ditches and clear obstacles. In the basic role this machine is fitted with a backhoe and a front-end loader. The HMEV can dig to a depth of over 4 m. The front-end loader can be adapted to carry a fork-lift attachment. Other accessories, such as a snow plough, compactor, rock breaker and earth auger are optional..

Here is Dimensions information for the HMEV Australian 4x4 Backhoe Loader:
The Length is 8.54 m.
The Width is 2.49 m.
The Height is 3.49 m.
The Weight is 11.5 t.

Here is Automotive information for the HMEV Australian 4x4 Backhoe Loader:
The Engine Name is Cummins 6BTA5.9-C185.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 185 hp.
The Transmission is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 100 km/h.
The Range is 600 km.
The Gradient is 60.
The Side Slope is 30.
The Vertical Step is 0.62 m.
The Trench is 0.6 m.
The Fording is 0.76 m.

Here is Protection information for the HMEV Australian 4x4 Backhoe Loader:
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is Armor protection can be added to the cab for protection against small arms fire, artillery shell splinters and IED blasts..
The Mine Clearing is No.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

