This document describes the BTR-50 Russian Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC).

Hezbollah Proliferation. The BTR-50 (BTR stands for Bronetransporter (БТР, Бронетранспортер), literally "armored transporter") is a Soviet amphibious armored personnel carrier (APC) based on the PT-76 light tank. The BTR-50 is tracked, unlike most in the BTR series, which are wheeled. The BTR-50 shares many similarities with two other APCs, the OT-62 TOPAS and the Type 77. While the OT-62 is an improved copy of the BTR-50 developed jointly by Czechoslovakia and Poland, the Type 77, based on Type 63 amphibious light tank developed by the People's Republic of China (PRC), is not a copy of the BTR-50.

Like the PT-76, the BTR-50 has a flat, boat-shaped hull. Unlike the PT-76, it has a new superstructure added to the front of the vehicle. The hull of the BTR-50 is made of all-welded steel with the crew compartment in the front, the troop compartment in the center, and the engine compartment at the rear. It has the ability to transport up to 20 fully equipped infantrymen, who sit on benches that run across the full width of the troop compartment. They mount and dismount the APC by climbing over the sides of the hull. The driver sits in the center of the front of the hull and has three vision blocks and periscopes located at the top of the sloping glacis plate. During night operations, the center periscope can be swapped for the TVN-28 night vision device, which gives the driver clear vision up to 60 meters. The driver also has a small hatch that opens upwards—while it cannot be used to leave the vehicle, it can be opened in relatively safe areas for extra vision. In combat, the hatch is closed and the driver can use a vision block. There is an emergency hatch under the driver's seat. The commander, who sits on the left side of the vehicle at the front, has three vision blocks and periscopes in a projecting bay. On top of this bay is a cupola that opens forward and can be locked vertically; it has a vision block facing forward. The vehicle can operate in temperatures from −40 °C to +40 °C.

The torsion bar suspension consists of six evenly spaced large rubber-tired road wheels with a drive sprocket at the rear and an idler at the front. The road wheels are hollow to assist its amphibious capabilities. These wheels increase the APC's buoyancy by 30%. There are no track return rollers. The first and last road wheels have a hydraulic shock absorber, the steel tracks have a single pin and 96 links each when new. There is a small, thin, horizontal skirt over each track. The BTR-50 is powered by a V-6 6-cylinder 4-stroke in-line water-cooled diesel engine developing 240 hp (179 kW) at 1800 rpm. This gives it a road speed of 44 km/h with a cruising range of 400 km. The vehicle can negotiate 30° side slopes, ascend 60° gradients, cross 1.1 m high vertical obstacles, and 2.8 m wide trenches. The engine has a cooling system and a pre-heater (intended for ignition when the air temperature is −20 °C or below). The APC has a five-gear manual shaft-type transmission system similar to that in the T-34/85 medium tank. The gearbox has four forward and one reverse gear. The vehicle has a side clutch that enables it to make turns, mechanical transmission, and a handbrake. The vehicle has three fuel tanks, two on the right at the front of the engine compartment and one at the rear. The total fuel capacity is 400 liters. The vehicle has four mounts for additional external fuel tanks located on the rear of the hull; the two on the hull corners are for a flat external tank, whereas the two in the center are for a drum-type of the tank.

The BTR-50 is amphibious thanks to its flat, boat-shaped hull, which is hermetically sealed and ensures minimal resistance when the APC is afloat. It can swim after switching on the two electric bilge pumps; erecting the trim vane which improves the stability and displacement of the vehicle in the water and prevents water from flooding over the bow of the APC. Swapping the driver's periscope for a swimming periscope enables the driver to see over the trim vane. There is also a manual bilge pump for emergency use. In the water, it is propelled by two hydro jets, one on each side of the hull, the inlets are under the hull, the outlets are at the rear. There are also additional assistant water-jet inlets on both sides of the hull over the last road wheels. The rear outlets have lids that can be fully or partially closed, redirecting the water stream to the forward-directed outlets at the sides of the hull, thus enabling the vehicle to turn. This system was designed by N. Konowalow. It is the same system like the one used in the PT-76. The vehicle's low freeboard of 15 to 20 cm and lack of a snorkel means that it can only swim in the calmest waters.

Its armor is composed of homogeneous, cold rolled, welded steel—it is very thin by modern standards, 13 mm at the front, 10 mm on the sides and top, and 7 mm at the rear. While its maximum armor protects it fully against small arms fire and small artillery shell fragments, it cannot protect it against large shell fragments and .50-caliber machine gun bullets. Although its front armor might protect it against a 7.62 mm small arms fire, that same fire can sometimes penetrate the sides. The vehicle is equipped with an IR driving light and an IR searchlight. It lags behind other Soviet armored fighting vehicles as it has no fire protection systems and, with the exception of the BTR-50PK variant, it has no nuclear, biological, or chemical (NBC) protection systems, which significantly reduces its effectiveness.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Congo, Croatia, Cuba, Egypt, Guinea, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Libya, Non-State Actors, North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Russian Federation, Somalia, South Korea (Republic of Korea), Sudan, Syria, Viet Nam.

Here is Variants information for the BTR-50 Russian Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC):
The BTR-50P is Original with open troop compartment without NBC protection; 57-mm or 85-mm anti-tank (AT) gun could be mounted on the rear deck..
The Belgian Pandur is Belgian SMAS radio, NBC protection, armed with 12.7-mm & 7.62-mm machine guns..
The BTR-50PA is No AT gun ramp mount; sometimes featured a 14.5-mm KPVT heavy MG..
The BTR-50PK is Primary model with covered troop compartment, 4 firing ports & NBC protection system..
The BTR-50PU is Command vehicle with additional radios, 4 antennae, & auxiliary power supply..
The Pandur ATGM Carrier is HOT AT missile in a Euromissile UTM 800 launcher or a TOW AT missile in a Kvaerner-Eurkea turret; additional missiles stored in the hull..
The BTR-50PK(B) is Amphibious armored recovery vehicle designed for river crossings..
The MTP is BTR-50PK converted into a rolling workshop with a 15000 crane, 8000 tow bar, & block/tackle system to raise capacity..
The MTK (UR-67) is Mine-clearing rocket launcher system..
The MTR-1 is BTR-50 designed for repairing equipment..
The OT-62 (Slovakia & Poland) is Originally the Czech produced BTR-50..
The Type 77 (China) is Chinese produced BTR-50P..
The Nimda BTR-50PK (Israel) is Improved engine, electrical system,  & fuel system..
The Schuetzenpanzer 50PK is Crew compartment now with armored roof, an MG SGMB (later replaced by a PKMB)..
The Upgraded BTR-50 (Ukraine) is Improved performance vehicle with 60 km/hr speed on land, 10 km/hr in water, & with a heavier payload..
The Civilian BTR-50 is BTR-50P converted for civilian use such as topographic reconnaissance..

Here is Dimensions information for the BTR-50 Russian Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC):
The Length, Hull is 7.08.
The Length of Track on the Ground is 4.08.
The Width is 3.14.
The Height is 1.97.
The Track Width is 0.36.
The Ground pressure is INA.
The Ground Clearance is 0.37.

Here is Communications information for the BTR-50 Russian Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC):
The Primary Radio is The Radio Equipment varies depending on the variant and country the vehicle is operating in..

Here is Automotive information for the BTR-50 Russian Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC):
The Engine Name is 1 x Model V-6 water-cooled in-line 6-cyl diesel.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 240.
The Power-to-Weight Ratio is 16.9 hp/metric ton.
The Suspension is torsion bar, 6 road wheels, rear drive, front idler, 2 shock absorbers, no return rollers.
The Range is 400.
The Speed (Max Road) is 44.
The Speed (Max Off-Road) is INA.
The Speed (Average cross-country) is INA.
The Speed (Max Swim) is 7.
The Gradient is 70.
The Side Slope is 35.
The Vertical Step is 1.1.
The Trench is 2.8.
The Fording Depths is Amphibious.

Here is System information for the BTR-50 Russian Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC) of the Main Weapon System:
The Name is 1 x SG-43 Goryunov.
The Type is General-Purpose Machine Gun.
The Caliber is 7.62mm.
The Length is 1,150 mm.
The Barrel Length is 720 mm.
The Weight is 13.8.
The Maximum Effective Range is 1000 m (Day); INA (Night); 1000 m (Anti-Aircraft).
The Muzzle Velocity is 800.
The Action is Gas-operated.
The Rate of Fire is 500-700.
The Maximum Firing Range is 1,500 meters.
The Feed System is 200 or 250 round belts.
The Sights is Iron Sights.

Here is Ammunition information for the BTR-50 Russian Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC) of the Main Weapon System:
The Name is INA.
The Type is 7.62mm.
The Cartridge is 7.62×54mmR.
The Muzzle Velocity is 800.
The Basic Load is 1250 Rounds (250 in box, 1000 Ready): Light Ball, Ball-T, API.

Here is Fire Control information for the BTR-50 Russian Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC):
The FCS Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is No.
The Infrared Driving Light is Yes.
The IR Searchlight is Yes, on the right front hull.

Here is Protection information for the BTR-50 Russian Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC):
The Armor Type is Homogeneous, cold rolled, welded steel.
The Armor, Front is 13.
The Armor, Side and Top is 10.
The Armor, Rear is 7.
The Applique Armor is No.
The Smoke Equipment is No.
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is IMine.
The Self-entrenching Blade is No.
The NBC Protection System is Collective.
The Survivability Equipment is Automatic engine fire-extinguishing system on closed vehicles; mine-clearing system available.
The Firing Ports is 2 x firing ports in each side of hull.
The Automatic Engine Fire-Extinguisher is Yes.

