This document describes the PMM-2 Russian Self-Propelled Amphibious Floating Bridging and Ferry System.

The PMM-2 replaces the GSP and has one main advantage as a ferry over the GSP: whereas two GSP half-ferries must be joined together to produce one ferry with a capacity of 50 metric tons, one PMM-2 can handle approximately the same capacity eight PMM-2 vehicles can form eight separate ferries or four large ferries (85- ton capacity). The PMM-2 has great similarity to the PTS-2 tracked amphibian, with its cab and boat-like bow. The chassis is similar to that of the MT-T artillery prime mover, with seven road wheels and four return rollers. When unfolded the PMM-2 creates a raft that can carry a main battle tank without further assistance or construction. While two systems can be combined to form an 85-ton capable ferry, the PMM-2 does not form float bridges. On top of the hull, the system has two large box pontoons carried one atop the other. They are hinged to hydraulically unfold to either side of the hull for water operations. Small tread-way ramps are folded on the pontoons.  The unfolded pontoons have wave deflectors, as well as ramps to expedite the loading and unloading of vehicles.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation, Ukraine.

Here is Variants information for the PMM-2 Russian Self-Propelled Amphibious Floating Bridging and Ferry System:
The PMM-2M is The PMM-2M is floating bridging and ferry system designed and manufactured by the Russian defense industry. The vehicle is based on the suspension of the T-64 main battle tank. PMM-2 units can be connected together to form floating bridges. The PMM-2M can also be used to create bridge of 20m wide for water crossing of combat vehicles..

Here is System information for the PMM-2 Russian Self-Propelled Amphibious Floating Bridging and Ferry System:
The Alternative Designation is PMM-2.
The Type is Self-Propelled Amphibious Floating Bridging and Ferry System.
The Manufacturer is Russian Federation; Company: INA.
The Chassis is Based on the amphibious version of the Kharkov T-64 (same as MT-T transporter, PTS-2 tracked amphibian).
The Crew  is 3.

Here is Dimensions information for the PMM-2 Russian Self-Propelled Amphibious Floating Bridging and Ferry System:
The Length, Overall is 12.8 m.
The Width, Overall is The overall width of the PMM‐2 on the road is about 3.3 m so once the side floats are lowered the overall width is 9.9 m. The loading ramps each have a usable length of at least 5 m so a single PMM‐2 can probably be used to bridge wet gaps almost 20 m wide. In practice this width is probably reduced to 17 m or so..
The Height, Overall is 3.65 m.

Here is Bridging System information for the PMM-2 Russian Self-Propelled Amphibious Floating Bridging and Ferry System:
The Type is SP Ferry.
The Payload is 42,500 kg.
The Loading Ramps Length is 5 m.
The Bridging Gap is 20 m wide.
The Operation is The float units are mechanically unfolded using hydraulic mechanisms just before or as the vehicle enters the water.  Also unfolded mechanically are two two-section loading ramps each side. Once in the water, propulsion is provided by two propeller units at the rear. These are lowered once the vehicle is in the water..

Here is Automotive information for the PMM-2 Russian Self-Propelled Amphibious Floating Bridging and Ferry System:
The Engine Name is V-64-4 V-12.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power  is 710..
The Range, Cruising  is 500.
The Speed, Maximum Road  is 55 km/h.
The Speed, Maximum Swim  is 10 km/h.
The Fording Depth  is 1.2.
The Vertical Step  is 2.8.

Here is Protection information for the PMM-2 Russian Self-Propelled Amphibious Floating Bridging and Ferry System:
The Hull Armor is 370-440 mm of RHA against KE rounds and 500 mm to 575 mm of RHA against HEAT rounds.
The Applique Armor is No.
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is No.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

