This document describes the Choules Class Australian Landing Ship, Dock (LSD).

The Choules Class Australian Landing Ship, Dock (LSD) is designed to operate using helicopters and landing craft to get landing forces and equipment ashore. Choules has a large flight deck aft which can accommodate two large helicopters and a docking well in the stern capable of operating an LCM-8 or two LCVP landing craft. 
The military lift includes the capacity to load and transport up to 32 Abrams tanks, or 150 light trucks. HMAS Choules can carry a normal load of 356 troops, or overloaded with 700. Depending on the situation Choules can operate either close to shore or over the horizon using helicopters and landing craft, to get personnel and equipment ashore.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Australia.

Here is System information for the Choules Class Australian Landing Ship, Dock (LSD):
The Alternative Designation is Choules Class;  The vessel was built as RFA Largs Bay. At the end of 2010, Largs Bay was marked as one of the vessels to be removed from service under the Strategic Defense and Security Review. She was offered for sale, with the RAN announced as the successful bidder in April 2011. After modifications to make her more suited for Australian operating conditions, the vessel was commissioned in December 2011 as HMAS Choules..
The Type is Landing Ship, Dock (LSD).
The Builder is Swan Hunter, Wallsend, Tyne.
The Crew is 158 officers and sailors.
The Cargo Capacity is 356 troops (standard) up to 700 troops (overload);
32 Abrams tanks;
150 light trucks;
Two LCVP;
LCM-8;
Two mexeflotes.

Here is Dimensions information for the Choules Class Australian Landing Ship, Dock (LSD):
The Length is 176.6 m.
The Height is INA.
The Beam is 26.4 m.
The Draft is 5.8 m.
The Displacement, Standard is INA.
The Displacement, Full Load is 16,190 tons.

Here is Propulsion System information for the Choules Class Australian Landing Ship, Dock (LSD):
The Engine Name is Diesel-electric propulsion systems with 2 azimuthing thrusters and bow thruster..
The Engine Type is Diesel Electric.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Generator is 4 x main diesel generating sets: 2 × Wärtsilä 8L26 engines (2,240 kW each), 2 × Wärtsilä 12V26 engines (3,360 kW each)..
The Auxiliary Generator is 1 x auxiliary Wärtsilä standby diesel generating set..
The Maximum Range is 15,000 kilometers at 15 knots (28 km/h).
The Maximum Speed is 18 knots (33 km/h).

Here is System information for the Choules Class Australian Landing Ship, Dock (LSD) of the Main Weapon System:
The Name is 1 × Phalanx CIWS.
The Type is Close-In Weapon System (CIWS).
The Caliber is 20 mm.
The Barrel Length is 1,520 mm.
The Weight is 6,200 kg.
The Barrels is 6-barrel (progressive RH parabolic twist, 9 grooves).
The Guidance System is Ku-band radar and FLIR[.
The Elevation is −20°/+80°.
The Traverse is 150° from either side of centerline.
The Rate of Fire is 3,000 rpm.
The Muzzle Velocity is 1,100 m/s.
The Maximum Firing Range is 5,500 m.
The Effective Firing Range is 1,486 m.

Here is Ammunition information for the Choules Class Australian Landing Ship, Dock (LSD) of the Main Weapon System:
The Type is Projectile.
The Caliber is 20×102mm.
The Shell is Naval: Armor-piercing tungsten penetrator rounds with discarding sabots.
Land: High-explosive incendiary tracer, self-destruct.

Here is Aviation Facility information for the Choules Class Australian Landing Ship, Dock (LSD):
The Flight Deck is Flight deck can operate helicopters up to Chinook size. Temporary hangar can be fitted as required..
The Aircraft is Not routinely embarked.

Here is Protection information for the Choules Class Australian Landing Ship, Dock (LSD):
The Countermeasures is No.
The NBC Water Washdown System is Yes.
The EW Intercept is No.

