This document describes the Prizrak-19 Russian Unmanned Robotic Vehicle (R2FU).

Prizrak-19 Russian Unmanned Robotic Vehicle (R2FU) s an 8-wheeled, unmanned robotic vehicle, capable of land and water mobility, with multiple functions available for use to a ground maneuver element. Primary 
tasks include: Establish an OP, Defend, Establish an SBF/ABF, Conduct an Ambush, Secure Perimeter, conduct logistics resupply point operations; The R2FU is not limited to these tasks.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is System information for the Prizrak-19 Russian Unmanned Robotic Vehicle (R2FU):
The Alternative Designation is Prizrak-19.
The Type is Unmanned Robotic Vehicle (R2FU).
The Configuration is 8x8.
The Manufacturer is INA.
The Crew is 1 x primary operator and 1 x alternate operator..
The Controller is Dismount (backpack) controller..
The Full Autonomy is Full autonomy can navigate with or 
without communication to the 
operator along pre-recorded or set 
waypoints (distance of 10 miles)..
The Cargo Capacity is 680 kg (1,500 pounds)..
The Back-Hoe is Towable electric back-hoe can dig a 
standard fighting position in 40 
minutes with minimal noise.

Here is Dimensions information for the Prizrak-19 Russian Unmanned Robotic Vehicle (R2FU):
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Weight is INA.

Here is Automotive information for the Prizrak-19 Russian Unmanned Robotic Vehicle (R2FU):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Battery.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Battery Recharge Time is 3 hours.
The Maximum Speed is 16.1 km/h (10 mph).
The Range is 16.1 km (10 miles).
The Endurance is 16.1 km (10 miles) on one charge.
The Amphibious is Amphibious capable - can swim 
with full mission equipment load of 
680 kg (1,500 pounds)..

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Prizrak-19 Russian Unmanned Robotic Vehicle (R2FU):
The CROWS is Available.
The Javelin is Available. Javelin (Javelin mount is present but not functional)..

Here is Protection information for the Prizrak-19 Russian Unmanned Robotic Vehicle (R2FU):
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is Available.
The Mine Clearing is INA.
The NBC Protection is CBRN with JCAD detector.
The Smoke Equipment is Yes, 12 minutes of on-board smoke 
generation..
The Counter-UAS is Counter-UAS for commercial 
drones (also capable of jamming S 
and C band communications)..

