This document describes the MILAN 2 French Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM).

The MILAN 2 French Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM) French for kite) is a Western European anti-tank guided missile. The design of the MILAN started in 1962, it was ready for trials in 1971, and was accepted for service in 1972. It is a wire-guided SACLOS (semi-automatic command to line-of-sight) missile, which means the sight of the launch unit has to be aimed at the target to guide the missile. The MILAN can be equipped with a MIRA or MILIS thermal sight to give it night-firing ability.


MILAN is a product of Euromissile, a Franco-West German missile development program dating back to the 1960s. The system entered service in 1972 as a second-generation anti-tank weapon and soon became a standard anti-tank weapon throughout NATO, in use by most of the alliance's individual armies.

Consisting of two main components, the launcher, and the missile, the MILAN system utilizes a semi-automatic command to line of sight (SACLOS) command guidance system. It tracks the missile either by a tail-mounted infrared lamp or an electronic-flash lamp, depending on the model. Because it is guided by wire by an operator, the missile cannot be affected by radio jamming or flares. However, drawbacks include its short range, the exposure of the operator, problems with overland powerlines, and a vulnerability to infrared jammers such as Shtora that can prevent the automatic tracking of the missile's IR tail light.

The MILAN 2 variant, which entered service with the French, German and British armies in 1984, utilizes an improved 115 mm HEAT warhead. The MILAN 3 entered service with the French army in 1995 and features a new-generation localizer that makes the system more difficult to jam electronically.

MILAN 2: Single, main shaped charge warhead, with standoff probe to increase penetration (1984) – see photo to right, caliber 115 mm.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Algeria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Burundi, Cameroon, Chad, Croatia, Cyprus, Egypt, Estonia, France, Gabon, Germany, Greece, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jordan, Kenya, Lebanon, Libya, Macedonia, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Oman, Portugal, Qatar, Senegal, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Syria, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay.

Here is Variants information for the MILAN 2 French Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The MILAN 1 is Single, main shaped charge warhead (1972), calibre 103 mm.
The MILAN 2 is Single, main shaped charge warhead, with standoff probe to increase penetration (1984) – see photo to right, calibre 115 mm.
The MILAN 2T is Single main shaped charge, with smaller shape charge warhead at end of standoff probe to defeat reactive armour (1993).
The MILAN 3 is Tandem, shaped charge warheads (1996) and electronic beacon.
The MILAN ER is Extended range (3,000 m) and improved penetration.

Here is MILAN 2 Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM) information for the MILAN 2 French Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM) of the System:
The Country is France / Germany.
The Manufacturer is MBDA, MKEK (under license).
The Unit Cost is £12,000 (2017).
The Maximum Operational Range is 2,000.
The Minimum Operational Range is 25.
The Basic Load is 10.
The Armor Penetration is 350.
The Missile Length is 918.
The Missile Diameter is 125.
The Wing Span is 267.
The Rate of Fire is 3-4.
The Missile Weight is 6.73.
The Total Weight with Launcher is 24.
The Warhead Type is High Explosive.
The Warhead Weight is 2.7.
The Warhead Diameter is 1,158.
The Guidance System is Semi-Automatic command to line of sight by means of wires (SACLOS).
The Steering System is Jet deflector.
The Launch Platform is Individual, vehicle.
The Firing Post Weight is 16.4.
The Firing Post Length is 900.
The Firing Post Width is 420.
The Firing Post Height is 650.
The Armor Penetration is 352.
The Time of Flight to Max Range is 12.5.
The Missile Speed is 720.
The Charge Type is Tandem Charge, used against Reactive Armor.
The Note is The iconic MILAN is the most successful Western European anti-tank missile ever made and is only surpassed by the BGM-71 TOW when it comes to international customers..

