This document describes the Atlas II American All-Terrain Forklift.

The new ATLAS II is a rough terrain forklift with a load capacity of 10,000 lb with a 48" load center with the primary mission to lift and load/unload pallets from ISO 20' containers. The target price for the production contract is not to exceed $135,000 per vehicle (in FY03 dollars). The intent is to improve the vehicles capabilities as much as possible while maintaining the current program's vehicle cost.

The All-Terrain Lifter, Army System (ATLAS II) is to receive and issue supplies, move stock to and from storage; load and unload ammunition, supplies, and equipment on unit vehicles for deployment; stuffing and unstuffing pallets from containers; transloading landing craft cargo between vehicles and aircraft; moving items into stock; and off-loading breakbulk cargo from vehicles and aircraft. The forklift truck (hereinafter called "truck" or "forklift") shall be a four-wheel drive, diesel-engine-driven, variable reach boom type truck (see ASME B56.6). The truck shall not be equipped with stabilizers or outriggers. The truck shall be rated at 6,000 pounds at 24-inch load center with the 6,000-pound capacity carriage mounted and shall be rated at 10,000 pounds at 48-inch load center with the 10,000-pound capacity carriage mounted.

The production contract will be a five-year, firm fixed price requirements type contract. The current program estimate includes $135M for approximately 1,000 vehicles. The production contract will require the contractor to deliver up to six vehicles in production configuration about seven months after the production contract award for the Production Verification Testing. The Government reserves the right to purchase the successful offeror's Demonstration Test vehicle to perform additional testing after the award of the production contract and prior to delivery of the production configuration vehicles.

This program is based on the belief that industry has existing commercial vehicles, or vehicles capable of being modified, that can meet the requirements of this program. The Demonstration Test (in conjunction with the written proposal and evaluation) is a means of mitigating the risk to the Government in order to select the ATLAS II that has the highest probability of meeting all requirements as well as distinguishing differences between offerors providing vehicles that range in performance due to achieving required and desired objectives outlined in the ORD. The Demonstration Test vehicle, commercial component manuals, and the Demonstration Test vehicle support will be at no cost to the Government. The production contract will also include contract provisions providing for the transfer of the data package and rights to the government in the event that the original manufacturer goes out of business or drops the parts or vehicles from production.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Australia, United States of America.

Here is System information for the Atlas II American All-Terrain Forklift:
The Alternative Designation is Atlas II.
The Type is All-Terrian Forklift.
The Mission is This material handling machine is used to loading and unloading vehicles and containers. It can transport palletized loads or boxes. It can also stack them on on top of another and unstack. It can handle supplies such as ammunition and missiles. It can also handle MLRS and HIMARS pods with rockets. It can be also used in constructions and rebuild operations..
The Crew is 1.
The Automatic Fork Leveling System is Yes.
The Telescopic Boom is 3-stage telescopic boom, that can reach into trucks and shipping containers..
The Maximum Lift Capacity is Maximum lift capacity is 2.7 t, or 4.5 t, depending on the carriage..
The Airlift Capacity is This military machine can be airlifted by the C-130 Hercules tactical cargo aircraft. It is prepared for flight within 15 minutes..

Here is Dimensions information for the Atlas II American All-Terrain Forklift:
The Length is 9 m.
The Width is 2.4 m.
The Height is 2.6 m.
The Weight, Combat is INA.

Here is Automotive information for the Atlas II American All-Terrain Forklift:
The Engine Name is John Deere PE4045 HF 485.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 173.
The Maximum Speed is 37 km/h.
The Range is 400 km.
The Gradient is 45.
The Side Slope is INA.
The Vertical Step is 0.5 m.
The Trench is 0.5 m.
The Fording is 0.9 m.

Here is Protection information for the Atlas II American All-Terrain Forklift:
The Hull Armor is This machine has an enclosed cab. It provides protection for the operator against rollover and falling objects..
The Applique Armor is Yes, Add-on armor kit is available for the cab for operation in hotspot areas, such as Afghanistan and Iraq..
The Mine Clearing is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is No.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is No.

