This document describes the JL-10 (L-15 Falcon) Chinese Supersonic Lead-In Fighter Trainer Aircraft.

The Hongdu JL-10 also known as the L-15 Falcon is a supersonic advanced training and light combat aircraft being developed by Nanchang-based Hongdu Aviation Industry Corporation (HAIC) to meet the Chinese People's Liberation Army Air Force (PLAAF) and People's Liberation Army Naval Air Force (PLANAF) lead-in fighter trainer (LIFT) requirements, as well as next-generation training and light combat needs for foreign customers.

The JL-10 is an advanced trainer aircraft developed by Nanchang based Hongdu Aviation Industry Corporation. The aircraft made its maiden flight on 13 March 2006. The aircraft's general designer is Mr. Zhang Hong (张弘), and development had reportedly been completed alongside Yakovlev OKB of Russia. The JL-10 is a direct rival to the Guizhou Aircraft Industry Corporation (GAIC) JL-9/FTC-2000 Mountain Eagle in competition for the People's Liberation Army Air Force's (PLAAF) next-generation advanced trainer aircraft program.

HAIG unveiled a full-scale mock-up of its early prototype the L-15 advanced lead-in fighter trainer (LIFT) in the 2004 Zhuhai Airshow. The two-seat, two-engine L-15 featured the latest advanced technologies developed by China, such as the digital quadruple fly-by-wire (FBW), glass cockpit (two multi-color head down displays for both the front and rear cockpit, and an additional head-up display for the front cockpit) and hands-on-throttle-and-stick (HOTAS) flight control. The look-down field of view for the front cockpit is 18°, and 6° for the rear cockpit, exceeding the US requirement. The aerodynamic performance of the aircraft is enhanced by its large leading edge extensions (LEX) design, which gives a maximum angle of attack of 30°. This is very useful when trying to simulate the maneuvers of advanced fourth-generation fighters such as J-10, JF-17 and J-11, as well as for newest fifth generation fighter like J-20 and J-31. JL-9/FTC-2000 Mountain Eagle trainer jet from Guizhou Aircraft Industry Corporation (GAIC) is a direct competitor of the JL-10. JL-10 has a wide range of more advanced features comparing JL-9, but JL-9 is significant cheaper and its development and production would be fully indigenous, while early batches of JL-10 still rely on AI-222 series turbofan engine from Ukraine before an indigenous update is ready.

With the JL-10, student pilots will be able to complete mission flight training and advanced combat training, as well as complete all basic jet flight training courses. The aircraft also has six (four under-wing and two wingtip) pylons to carry various air-to-air and air-to-ground weapons. If necessary, it can serve in the lightweight attack role with minor modifications, carrying up to 3.5 tons of armament.

Each of the first two units (#01 & #02) are powered by two Ivchenko-Progress DV-2 engines, which do not have afterburners, and these two aircraft thus do not have the capability to reach supersonic speed. The third unit (#03) is powered by a pair of an improved version of the DV-2, the DV-2F, that has afterburners, so that it can attain supersonic speed. The subsequent production units are expected to be powered by Ukraine's Ivchenko-Progress AI-222K-25F turbofan engines with afterburners once a co-production license is obtained by the 608 Institute. Ivchenko-Progress was able to increase the thrust of the AI-222-28F (thrust 4500 kg afterburning) and AI-222-30F (5000 kg thrust afterburning) engines. The latter two engines may be used to equip the JL-10 or other Chinese aircraft. Meanwhile, according to various Chinese reports, JL-10s with updated Guizhou FWS-17 engines had already undergone test flights.

In June 2013, the AJT condition of L-15 finalized the design and would be operated by PLAAF with a formal name JL-10. On July 1, 2013, the first batch of JL-10 began delivery to the PLAAF. Chinese Air Force and later Naval Air Force are highly satisfied with the aircraft's all-around performance, high reliability, cost-effectiveness, as well as its great multi-role update potentials, easy maintainability, and a service life of over 10,000 flying hours.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China, Zambia.

Here is Variants information for the JL-10 (L-15 Falcon) Chinese Supersonic Lead-In Fighter Trainer Aircraft:
The L-15B is This is a more capable lead-in fighter trainer variant of the L-15. It is powered by two afterburning turbofan engines with full authority digital engine control (FADEC), likely the Russian Ivchenko-Progress AI-222-25F, providing a top speed of 750 mph (1,200 kph, Mach 0.98) at sea level..

Here is System information for the JL-10 (L-15 Falcon) Chinese Supersonic Lead-In Fighter Trainer Aircraft:
The Alternate Designation(s) is JL-10; L-15 Falcon.
The Primary Function / Type is Lead-In Fighter Trainer.
The Manufacturer is Hongdu Aviation Industry Corporation.
The Crew is 2.
The Number of Engines is 2.
The Number of Hard Points is INA.
The Note is With the JL-10, student pilots will be able to complete mission flight training and advanced combat training, as well as complete all basic jet flight training courses. The aircraft also has six (four under-wing and two wingtip) pylons to carry various air-to-air and air-to-ground weapons. If necessary, it can serve in the lightweight attack role with minor modifications, carrying up to 3.5 tons of armament..

Here is Dimensions information for the JL-10 (L-15 Falcon) Chinese Supersonic Lead-In Fighter Trainer Aircraft:
The Length is 12.27 m.
The Height is 4.81 m.
The Width (Wing Span) is 9.48 m.
The Wing area is INA.
The Empty Weight is 4,500 kg.
The Gross Weight is 6,500 kg.
The Maximum Takeoff Weight is 9,800 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the JL-10 (L-15 Falcon) Chinese Supersonic Lead-In Fighter Trainer Aircraft:
The Engine Name is 2 × Ivchenko-Progress AI-222K-25.
The Number of Engines is 2.
The Engine Type is Turbofan.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Range is 550 km.
The Maximum Speed is 1,729 km/h.
The Service Ceiling is 16,000 m.
The Ferry Range is 3,100 km.
The Rate of Climb is 200 m/s.

Here is Main Gun System information for the JL-10 (L-15 Falcon) Chinese Supersonic Lead-In Fighter Trainer Aircraft:
The Note is This is a training aircraft.

Here is Fire Control / Avionics information for the JL-10 (L-15 Falcon) Chinese Supersonic Lead-In Fighter Trainer Aircraft:
The Fire Control Radar Name is .
The Fire Control System Type is INA.
The Navigation Radar is Unknown type PESA radar, Likely with AESA radars for further updates..

Here is Protection information for the JL-10 (L-15 Falcon) Chinese Supersonic Lead-In Fighter Trainer Aircraft:
The Stealth Properties is None.
The Heat Signature Reduction is No.
The Add on Armor is INA.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The EW Counter Measures is INA.
The Chaffs/Flares is INA.

