This document describes the Ripsaw American Unmanned Light Tank.

The Ripsaw is a developmental unmanned light tank designed and built by Howe & Howe Technologies for evaluation by the United States Army.

The Howe brothers started the Ripsaw as a small family project in 2000. They introduced it at a Dallas vehicle show in 2001, where it caught the interest of the U.S. Army. Later that year the U.S. Military ordered a prototype MS-1 to be made and shipped to Iraq.

The Ripsaw is intended to perform various missions including convoy protection, perimeter defense, surveillance, rescue, border patrol, crowd control, and explosive ordnance disposal. For perimeter defense or crowd control, a belt of M5 Modular Crowd Control Munitions (MCCM) can be mounted around the vehicle to break up crowds or non-lethally engage personnel with flash-bang effects and rubber bullets. Cameras provide 360-degree coverage for situational awareness for the operator.

The Army has tested the Ripsaw while remote-controlled by a soldier in another armored vehicle up to 1 km (0.62 mi) away. Its weapon system is modified to fire remotely using the Advanced Remote Armament System (ARAS), a gun that loads its own ammunition and can swap out various types of ammunition, such as lethal and non-lethal, in just a few seconds. These capabilities allow manned vehicles to send the Ripsaw out in front of them and engage targets without exposing soldiers to threats. As of March 2017, the Army is still testing the vehicle as an unmanned platform to test remote weapons stations.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the Ripsaw American Unmanned Light Tank:
The Ripsaw UGV is Ripsaw UGV (non-militarized) prototype could accelerate to 65 mph (105 km/h) in about 3.5 seconds, since it was lighter, but it wasn’t as strong/rugged..
The Ripsaw MS1 tactical UGV is Ripsaw MS1 tactical UGV utilizes a powerful oversized and customized 650-horsepower (660 PS; 480 kW) Duramax 6.6L V8 diesel engine that delivers 900 ft⋅lbf (1,200 N⋅m) of torque. The Ripsaw MS1 was a test platform made to test off-road capabilities. It was exclusively unmanned, cost $200,000 and could accelerate from 0–65 mph (0–105 km/h) in 3 seconds..
The Ripsaw MS2 UGV is Ripsaw MS2 UGV is made to be larger, faster, and more modular than the MS1. It weighs 4.5 short tons (4.1 t) and can carry a one-short-ton (0.91 t) payload. The lightweight tubular chassis design is powered by a 6.6 liter duramax diesel engine generating 600 horsepower (610 PS; 450 kW) and 1,000 ft⋅lbf (1,400 N⋅m) of torque. Fully loaded, the MS2 can accelerate from 0–50 mph (0–80 km/h) in 5.5 seconds and has a top speed of 60 mph (97 km/h). The vehicle can traverse 50 degree gradients and 45 degree slopes. It can be optionally manned or tele-operated from a nearby command vehicle. Armament can include an M240 machine gun or M2 .50-caliber machine gun, and it has been tested with the Javelin missile. If the Ripsaw is damaged or destroyed, parts can be "cannibalized" in the field and re-assembled quickly. An MS2 vehicle costs $750,000..
The Ripsaw MS3 UGV is Ripsaw MS3 UGV is being tested by United States Army Research, Development and Engineering Command under the Remote Armed Maneuver Platform (RAMP) initiative to integrate the M153 CROWS remote weapon system onto an unmanned vehicle. RAMP was demonstrated at Fort Benning, Georgia in October 2013 as part of the Army's Armed Unmanned Ground Vehicle (AUGV) program.
The Ripsaw EV2 is Ripsaw EV2 is a luxury version, with a fully enclosed body and two seats inside the cab. It can exceed speeds of over 60 mph (97 km/h) and has a range of approximately 300 miles (480 km). It is currently unknown if the EV2 can mount remotely-operated weapon systems or not. This model is designed for the civilian market but still costs $295,000 with customizable features..
The Ripsaw M5 is Ripsaw M5 is fully autonomous, all electric tank with max speed up to 60 mph (96 km/h) with a modular design. This would make it as one of the fastest, most flexible production ready tank on the planet. Its speed and autonomous capability could enable the tank battle group to get out of a nuclear strike.
The Ripsaw EV2 is The coveted Ripsaw EV2 represents one of the world's most capable off-road vehicles ever developed.   Offered to the public as a luxury high performance light weight go fast super tank in 2015, Ripsaw has become world class iconic and is one of the most sought after and highly valued extreme vehicles on the planet.   Howe and Howe Tech is pleased to offer in 2018 the all new redesigned super advanced "suspended cockpit" single seater EV3F1, two seater EV3F2 and the four seater EV3F4 Ripsaws..
The Ripsaw EV3F1 is Ripsaw EV3F1 are the most extreme and most terrain dominant Ripsaws ever developed.  Designed with up to 1500hp and an astonishing .2 hp/lbs power to weight ratio, with over 112 inches of track on the ground, the Ripsaw EV3-F1 stands as one of the world's most exhilarating single seat off-road vehicles ever conceived.   Wheel speed is no longer necessary to traverse slopes of loose terrain such as mud, sand and snow.  The Ripsaw SSR sets new benchmarks in terrestrial platform development and now stands as the pinnacle of extreme high speed off-road travel..
The Ripsaw EV3 - F2 is Ripsaw EV3 - F2  (Extreme Vehicle - Floating Cockpit) series Ripsaws are a two seater version of the EV3-F1.  Designed with up to 1500hp and an astonishing .2 hp/lbs power to weight ratio, with over 112 inches of track on the ground, the Ripsaw EV3-F2 stands as one of the world's most exhilarating two seater off-road vehicles ever conceived.   Wheel speed is no longer necessary to traverse slopes of loose terrain such as mud, sand and snow.  The Ripsaw EV3 series extreme vehicles set new benchmarks in terrestrial mobility and now stands as the pinnacle of extreme high speed off-road travel..
The Ripsaw EV3 - F4 is Ripsaw EV3 - F4 (Extreme Vehicle - Floating Cockpit) series Ripsaws are a Four seater version of the EV3-F1.  Designed with up to 1500hp and an astonishing power to weight ratio, with over 112 inches of track on the ground, the Ripsaw EV3-F4 stands as one of the world's most exhilarating four seater off-road vehicles ever conceived.   Wheel speed is no longer necessary to traverse slopes of loose terrain such as mud, sand and snow.  The Ripsaw EV3F4 sets new benchmarks in terrestrial platform development and now stands as the pinnacle of extreme high speed off-road travel..

Here is System information for the Ripsaw American Unmanned Light Tank:
The Alternative Designation is Ripsaw.
The Type is Unmanned Light Tank.
The Family is Ripsaw.
The Crew is Unmanned.

Here is Dimensions information for the Ripsaw American Unmanned Light Tank:
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is 180.
The Weight, Combat is 4,100.
The Ground Clearance is 610.
The Payload Capacity is 910.

Here is Automotive information for the Ripsaw American Unmanned Light Tank:
The Engine Name is Duramax V8 engine.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 750.
The Cruising Range is INA.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 105.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is INA.
The Fording Depth is INA.
The Suspension is 410.

Here is Primary Weapon System information for the Ripsaw American Unmanned Light Tank:
The Note is Armament can include an M240 machine gun or M2 .50-caliber machine gun, and it has been tested with the Javelin missile. Also, the Ripsaw MS3 UGV is being tested by United States Army Research, Development and Engineering Command under the Remote Armed Maneuver Platform (RAMP) initiative to integrate the M153 CROWS remote weapon system onto an unmanned vehicle..

Here is Protection information for the Ripsaw American Unmanned Light Tank:
The Armor is None (aluminum frame).
The Applique Armor is Available.
The Active Protection System is INA.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

