This document describes the Hunter RSVK-M2 Ukrainian 6x6 Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV).

The Hunter RSVK-M2 Ukrainian 6x6 Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV) is designed to be a universal platform. The vehicle has been shown in its combat role, where it is capable of mounting a number of weapons.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Ukraine.

Here is System information for the Hunter RSVK-M2 Ukrainian 6x6 Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV):
The Alternative Designation is Hunter RSVK-M2.
The Type is Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).
The Manufacturer is Robotics Design Bureau.
The Configuration is 6x6.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Operator is An operator can control the platform via a ruggedized, briefcase style, portable control unit..
The Sensors is The company has also developed its own sighting system for the UGV called the (приладом наведення, ПН) guidance device. The guidance unit can identify objects at a distance of up to 600 m and also detect and fire out to a distance of up to 750 m..

Here is Dimensions information for the Hunter RSVK-M2 Ukrainian 6x6 Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV):
The Length is 2.00 m.
The Width is 1.25 m.
The Height is 0.70 m.
The Weight, Empty is 110 kg.
The Weight, Combat is 410 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Hunter RSVK-M2 Ukrainian 6x6 Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Battery.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Amphibious is No.
The Maximum Speed is 30 km/h.
The Standard Speed is 8 km/h.
The Operating Range is 15–20 km  on a single charge, depending on the terrain..
The Endurance is In monitoring mode, the Hunter RSVK-M2 Ukrainian 6x6 Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV) can monitor around the clock without recharging for 2–3 days..

Here is Communications information for the Hunter RSVK-M2 Ukrainian 6x6 Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV):
The Note is An operator can control the platform and use a video signal up to a distance of 2 km using a protected channel that safeguards against jamming..

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Hunter RSVK-M2 Ukrainian 6x6 Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV):
The Note is Weapons that can be used with the Hunter RSVK-M2 Ukrainian 6x6 Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV) include the PKT 7.62 mm machine gun (MG), the NSV 12.7 mm MG, the AG-17A automatic grenade launcher (AGL), and anti-tank guided missiles (ATGM)..

Here is Protection information for the Hunter RSVK-M2 Ukrainian 6x6 Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV):
The Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is INA.

