This document describes the Moma-Class (Project 861 Class) Ukrainian Hydrographic Survey Vessel.

The Moma-Class vessel is a medium survey ship that conducts hydrographic surveys, as well as research activities to include intelligence information collection and analysis. The vessel can also perform search-and-rescue of sunken objects, and inspection of underwater infrastructure.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation, Ukraine.

Here is Variants information for the Moma-Class (Project 861 Class) Ukrainian Hydrographic Survey Vessel:
The Berezan (U-602) is Ukrainian Hydrographic Survey Ship (Former Soviet Fleet)..

Here is System information for the Moma-Class (Project 861 Class) Ukrainian Hydrographic Survey Vessel:
The Alternative Designation is Moma-Class (Project 861 Class) Ukrainian Hydrographic Survey Vessel, Simferopol (U-511).
The Type is Hydrographic Research Vessel / Medium Intelligence Ship.
The Builder is Gdansk Shipyard, Poland.
The Crew is 45.
The Research Analysts is 10.
The Note is Also used as a training ship..

Here is Dimensions information for the Moma-Class (Project 861 Class) Ukrainian Hydrographic Survey Vessel:
The Length is 73.3 m.
The Beam is 10.8 m.
The Draft is 3.85 m.
The Displacement, Standard is 1,200 tons.
The Displacement, Full Load is 1,542 tons.

Here is Propulsion System information for the Moma-Class (Project 861 Class) Ukrainian Hydrographic Survey Vessel:
The Engine Name is 2 x Zgoda-Sulzer 6ТD-48.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 3,600 hp (Total).
The Propellers is 2 x Controllable Pitch props.
The Bow Thrusters is INA.
The Maximum Range is 8,900 nm.
The Maximum Speed is 17 knots.
The Endurance is 20 days.

Here is Electronics information for the Moma-Class (Project 861 Class) Ukrainian Hydrographic Survey Vessel:
The Navigation Radar is Yes, 2 x Don navigation radars.
The Radio Direction Finder is Yes, 1 x ARP-50R radio direction finder.
The Survey Equipment is MG-13 underwater communication station, MG-26 Khosta underwater communication station.

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Moma-Class (Project 861 Class) Ukrainian Hydrographic Survey Vessel:
The  is .
The  is .
The Note is There are no known weapon systems associated with the Moma-Class vessel..

Here is Protection information for the Moma-Class (Project 861 Class) Ukrainian Hydrographic Survey Vessel:
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Countermeasures is INA.
The NBC Water Washdown System is Yes.

