This document describes the JRTC VISMOD: RPG-27 Russian 105mm Disposable Anti-Tank Grenade Launcher (ATGL).

The RPG-27 is a Soviet disposable rocket launcher.

The RPG-27 shares a close resemblance with the previous RPG-26 in that it is a man-portable, disposable anti-tank rocket launcher with a single shot capacity. The RPG-27 has a larger diameter round than the RPG-26 which enables the RPG-27 to achieve higher armor penetration performance. The RPG-27 fin stabilized round is a 105 mm tandem-charge HEAT warhead with a range of 200 meters. The round has a stated penetration capability in excess of 600 mm of RHA (after ERA) and 1500 mm of brick or concrete and 3700 mm of earth. The RShG-1 is very similar in operation to the RPG-27 but carries a thermobaric warhead with a lethal radius of 10 meters and a larger range of 600 meters. Officially adopted by the Russian Government in December 2011.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jordan, Mexico, Russian Federation, Syria.

Here is Variants information for the JRTC VISMOD: RPG-27 Russian 105mm Disposable Anti-Tank Grenade Launcher (ATGL):
The RMG Variant is The RMG is a smaller, multipurpose variant of the RShG-1 that is optimized for the bunker buster role and defeating light vehicles and infantry in cover. As a result, its penetration performance against tank armor is reduced.

The launcher carries a tandem warhead. The precursor high-explosive anti-tank (HEAT) warhead penetrates armor or other obstacles (reinforced concrete, masonry, etc.). The main warhead creates a fine explosive cloud and takes into the interior through the hole, pierced by the precursor charge. Detonation of the main warhead explosive boasts a multiple effects (high-explosive and incendiary).

The RMG rocket launcher ('RMG' stands for “Reaktivnaya Mnogotselevaya Granata” or rocket-propelled multi-purpose grenade) was developed by Bazalt in the early 2000s. As is the case with disposable anti-tank rocket launchers and multi-purpose assault weapons, the designation of the new rocket launcher is the designation of its round. The design project was supervised by leading designer S. Kh. Irtuganov. Officially adopted by the Russian Government in December 2011..
The RSHG-1 is INA.

Here is Dimensions information for the JRTC VISMOD: RPG-27 Russian 105mm Disposable Anti-Tank Grenade Launcher (ATGL) of the System:
The Length, Firing  is 1.155.
The Length, Travel  is 1.155.
The Weight is 7.6.

Here is Munition 1 information for the JRTC VISMOD: RPG-27 Russian 105mm Disposable Anti-Tank Grenade Launcher (ATGL) of the Munition:
The Cailber/Length  is 105.
The Muzzle Velocity  is 120.
The Range, Effective  is 200.
The Type is Tandem-HEAT.

Here is Night Sights information for the JRTC VISMOD: RPG-27 Russian 105mm Disposable Anti-Tank Grenade Launcher (ATGL) of the Sights:
The Available is No.

Here is Sights information for the JRTC VISMOD: RPG-27 Russian 105mm Disposable Anti-Tank Grenade Launcher (ATGL) of the Sights:
The Notes is (Can be used with NVG found
in Hybrid Threat units).  Other sights
can be adapted, such as the
strap-on British Ring Sight,
with NVG.
.
The Type is Raised iron peep sight.

