This document describes the PRV-13 (Odd Pair) Russian Height Finding Radar.

RV-13 “Odd Pair” was a fully remote controlled height-finder in the former Warshaw Pact. It was used for heights up to 85 km. This height-finder was on duty as a transitional solution for the new states in the German Air Force up to 1998.

A special feature is its compensation antenna (the so-called “baby-antenna”) used for sidelobe suppression. The transmitter stage of the PRV-13 uses a magnetron at a fixed frequency, with a second transmitter tuned on another frequency on standby. There where four reserve frequencies that could never be used before for reasons of confidentiality. Changing this frequency means, changing the magnetron.

The PRV-13 was a patchwork of from proven electron tube assemblies used in its predecessors too, and solid-state assemblies and modules using integrated CMOS circuits.

Very interesting was the kind of generation of the elevation angle marks: a cathode ray tube was deflected in scale to the elevation angle. In this tube was clamped a precise grid of wires. When the synchronously electron beam into this tube hit one of these wires, then it created an output pulse (standing for an electronic range mark).

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, India, Kazakhstan, North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Poland, Syria, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan.

Here is System information for the PRV-13 (Odd Pair) Russian Height Finding Radar:
The Alternative Designation is PRV-13; NATO: Odd Pair.
The Type is Height Finding Radar.
The Crew is INA.
The Chassis is Van-mounted.
The Associated with is Odd Pair** is a van-mounted, height-finding radar associated with the SA-5 Gammon** surface-to-air missile (SAM) system..
The Frequency is 2500 to 2700 mhz.
The Peak Power is 1.6 mw.
The Average Power is 1 kW.
The Maximum Detection Range is 310 km.
The Pulse Repetition Frequency (PRF) is 400 Hz.
The Hit Per Scan is > 15.

Here is Dimensions information for the PRV-13 (Odd Pair) Russian Height Finding Radar:
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Weight, Combat is INA.

