This document describes the Mercedes-Benz G-Class German 6x6 Light Utility Vehicle.

The Mercedes-Benz G-Class, sometimes called G-Wagen (short for Geländewagen, "terrain vehicle"), is a mid-size four-wheel drive luxury SUV manufactured by Magna Steyr (formerly Steyr-Daimler-Puch) in Austria and sold by Mercedes-Benz. In certain markets, it has been sold under the Puch name as Puch G.

The G-Wagen is characterised by its boxy styling and body-on-frame construction. It uses three fully locking differentials, one of the few vehicles to have such a feature.

Despite the introduction of an intended replacement, the unibody SUV Mercedes-Benz GL-Class in 2006, the G-Class is still in production and is one of the longest produced vehicles in Daimler's history, with a span of 40 years. Only the Unimog surpasses it.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Australia, Germany.

Here is Variants information for the Mercedes-Benz G-Class German 6x6 Light Utility Vehicle:
The Mercedes Tgb 15 is Armoured utility vehicle; Terrängbil 15, German Mercedes-Benz G-Class 6x6.

Here is System information for the Mercedes-Benz G-Class German 6x6 Light Utility Vehicle:
The Alternative Designation is Mercedes-Benz G-Class.
The Type is Light Utility Vehicle.
The Manufacturer is Mercedes-Benz.
The Crew is 1.
The Passenger Capacity is 3.

Here is Dimensions information for the Mercedes-Benz G-Class German 6x6 Light Utility Vehicle:
The Length is 6.24 m.
The Width is 1.7 m.
The Height is 1.95 m.
The Maximum Load is 3 t.
The Weight, Empty is 3.5 t.

Here is Automotive information for the Mercedes-Benz G-Class German 6x6 Light Utility Vehicle:
The Engine Name is Mercedes-Benz, Engine Model: INA.
The Engine Type is 3-liter diesel.
The Engine Power is 184.
The Range is 800.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 140.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.
The Gradient is 60.
The Side Slope is 30.
The Vertical Step is 0.5.
The Trench is 0.5.
The Fording Depth is 0.6 - 1 m.

Here is Protection information for the Mercedes-Benz G-Class German 6x6 Light Utility Vehicle:
The Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is Available.
The Active Protection System is No.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is No.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

