This document describes the Mini Harpy Israeli Tactical Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

Mini-Harpy 
This tactical loitering munition combines the operating characteristics of the Harpy and Harop. It can lock onto radar and other emitting threats via person-in-the-loop electro-optical guidance. Fully autonomous operation is available as an option. It can attack emitting and non-emitting targets. Provides tactical forces with the ability to suppress the area of interest for long duration and to strike immediately emitting and non-emitting Targets.

The ability to seek and to attack any target from any direction at any angle, gives the Mini HARPY significant advantage in any environment. In addition, long-range communication, long-endurance of loitering time and a deadly warhead enables it to deal with diverse targets in the modern warfare.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China, Israel, Turkey.

Here is Variants information for the Mini Harpy Israeli Tactical Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Cutlass is This variant of the Harpy was evaluated in 1999 with Raytheon for search-and-destroy missions and the ability to attack a wider range of targets. It would have been a sea-launched weapon employing advanced sensors from Raytheon.
The Harop/Harpy 2 is This is a larger, upgraded variant. Designed as a fire-and-forget weapon, the Harop can fly more than 600 mi (1,000 km) to patrol a specific area and attack any hostile radars detected..
The Harpy NG (new generation) is This is an upgraded variant that uses the Harop airframe. It was developed to counter newer air defense radar threats..
The Mini-Harpy is This tactical loitering munition combines the operating characteristics of the Harpy and Harop. It can lock onto radar and other emitting threats via person-in-the-loop electro-optical guidance. Fully autonomous operation is available as an option. It can attack emitting and non-emitting targets..
The Maritime Harop is This is a variant of the Harop optimized for operation from naval vessels, from patrol ships to frigates. It features a maritime-configured launcher and modified communications..
The ASN-301 is This is a Chinese copy of the Harpy. It has a delta wing and pusher propeller configuration that appears virtually identical to the Israeli system. According to the China National Aero-Technology Import & Export Corp. (CATIC), the ASN-301 targets radar frequencies in the 2-16 GHz range and has a radar search range of 16 mi (25 km). The system is said to be able to target up to eight preset radar targets..

Here is System information for the Mini Harpy Israeli Tactical Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is Mini-Harpy.
The Type is Tactical Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is Israel Aerospace Industries, Ben Gurion International Airport, Israel.
The Based is Land and Sea Based.
The Performance is *Dual EO/IR and Anti-radiation seeker;

*Canister launched from ground or naval platforms;

*Man in the loop (MITL)  or Fully Autonomous operation as an option;

*Battle Damage Assessment (BDA);

*Mission Execution Even Under Adverse Weather Conditions;

*Full range from shallow to vertical attack angles;

*Abort and re-attack capability;

*Suppression / Destruction Enemy Air Defense Missions;

*Silent using electrical propulsion.
The Note is The world’s only loitering munition with Dual EO/IR and Anti-Radiation seeker..

Here is Dimensions information for the Mini Harpy Israeli Tactical Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is INA.
The Wingspan is INA.
The Takeoff Weight is 40 kg.
The Warhead Weight is 8 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Mini Harpy Israeli Tactical Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Rotary Engine.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Operational Range is up to 100 km.
The Operational Altitude is 305 m to 1,520 m.
The Loitering Speed is 102-157 kph.
The Maximum Speed is 370 kph.
The Endurance is 2 hours.

Here is Fire Control and Avionics information for the Mini Harpy Israeli Tactical Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Communication Maximum Range is 100 km.
The Radar Name is INA.
The Radar Distance is INA.
The Radar Cross-Section is INA.

