This document describes the MATADOR Israeli 90mm Man-Portable Anti-Tank Recoilless Gun.

MATADOR Israeli 90mm Man-Portable Anti-Tank Recoilless Gun is an updated version of the German-Singaporean Armbrust design and operates on the same principles. The development of this weapon began in 2000 and the MATADOR will eventually replace the German-Singaporean Armbrust Light Anti-tank Weapon, which has been in service since the 1980s.

The MATADOR was developed jointly by the Singapore Armed Forces (SAF) and the Defence Science and Technology Agency (DSTA), in collaboration with Rafael Advanced Defense Systems and Dynamit Nobel Defence (DND) joint team.

The MATADOR is among the lightest in its class. The warhead is effective against both vehicle armor and brick walls. The weapon has little backblast, making it safe for operation in confined spaces.

The MATADOR is supposed to be capable of defeating the armor of the most known armored personnel carriers and light tanks in the world. The dual-capability warhead, when acting in the delay mode, creates an opening greater than 450 mm (18 in) in diameter in a double brick wall, and acts as an anti-personnel weapon against those behind the wall, offering an unconventional means of entry when fighting in built-up areas.

The MATADOR's projectile is claimed to be insensitive to wind due to its propulsion system, which results in a highly accurate weapon system.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Germany, Israel, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Slovenia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Viet Nam.

Here is Variants information for the MATADOR Israeli 90mm Man-Portable Anti-Tank Recoilless Gun:
The MATADOR-MP is Multi-purpose weapon with a warhead effective against a wide variety of ground targets, from light armoured vehicles to fortified positions and urban walls. As with the initial MATADOR, this is achieved with a dual-mode fuse, which has been improved on the MATADOR-MP such that it now automatically discriminates between hard and soft targets rather than requiring the operator to manually make the selection. A dedicated targeting device, mounted on its Picatinny rail, incorporates a reflex sight and laser rangefinder to provide a high hit probability..
The MATADOR-WB is Specialised wall-breaching weapon, featuring an Explosively-Formed Ring (EFR) warhead that breaches a man-sized hole, between 75 cm (30 in) to 100 cm (39 in) across, in typical urban walls..
The MATADOR-AS is Anti-structure weapon with an advanced tandem warhead that can also be set between two modes. The anti-emplacement mode uses an enhanced blast effect to defeat structures and fortifications, while the penetrating/mouse-holing mode defeats light armoured vehicles and creates mouseholes in urban walls.MATADOR-AS has been ordered by the British Army, and is slated for service entry in 2009..

Here is System information for the MATADOR Israeli 90mm Man-Portable Anti-Tank Recoilless Gun:
The Alternative Designation is MATADOR.
The Type is Recoilless Gun.
The Manufacturer is Dynamit Nobel Defence.
The Crew is 1.
The Caliber is 90 mm.
The Air to Surface Capable is No.
The Surface to Air Capable is Yes.
The Muzzle Velocity is 150.
The Effective Firing Range is 500.
The Feed System is Disposable.
The Warhead is The warhead can be used in both High Explosive Anti-Tank (HEAT) and High Explosive Squash Head (HESH) modes against armor and walls or other fortifications respectively. Selection is done by extending a "probe" (most likely a fuse extender) for HEAT mode and leaving the "probe" retracted for HESH mode..
The Countermass System is Similar to the Armbrust, the countermass counteracts the recoil of the weapon upon firing. The countermass consists of shredded plastic, which is launched out of the rear of the weapon when it is fired. This plastic is rapidly slowed by air resistance, allowing the weapon to be fired safely within an enclosed space. In addition, the positioning of the countermass takes into consideration the centre of gravity of the weapon to ensure good balance for better accuracy..
The Grip is The MATADOR series is equipped with a folding vertical grip, pistol grip, and shoulder rest. These are folded for transport to reduce the risk of snagging..

Here is Dimensions information for the MATADOR Israeli 90mm Man-Portable Anti-Tank Recoilless Gun:
The Length is 1 m.
The Width is 90 mm.
The Height is INA.
The Weight, Combat is 8.9.

Here is Sights information for the MATADOR Israeli 90mm Man-Portable Anti-Tank Recoilless Gun:
The Sighting System is The launcher is aimed using a 1.5× magnification optical sight. The MIL-STD-1913 rail can be used for the mounting of night sight..

