This document describes the R-330K Russian Mobile Automated Control Station.

The R-330K Russian Mobile Automated Control Station is designed for automated centralized control of automated jamming stations (AJS) such as R-325U, R-330T(B), R-378A(B), and R-934B. It also coordinates the use of AJS thereby increasing the efficiency of jamming HF and VHF/UHF communication lines and networks.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is Variants information for the R-330K Russian Mobile Automated Control Station:
The RP-330KPK: VHF Automated Command Post is The RP-330KPK: VHF Automated Command Post is a command vehicle variant that has an onboard automated control station computer (Name: INA) that assists with tipping and cueing to other collection vehicles. No further information available..

Here is System information for the R-330K Russian Mobile Automated Control Station:
The Alternative Designation is R-330K.
The Type is Mobile Automated Control Station.
The Manufacturer is INA.
The In Service is 1998-Present.
The Chassis is Ural-43203.
The Configuration is 6x6.
The Crew is 4.

Here is Dimensions information for the R-330K Russian Mobile Automated Control Station:
The Length is 7.37.
The Width is 2.5.
The Height is 4.5.
The Weight, Empty is 8.
The Payload capacity (on road) is 6.
The Payload capacity (off road) is 4.5.
The Maximum Tow Capacity is 12.

Here is Features and Capabilities information for the R-330K Russian Mobile Automated Control Station of the Automated Jamming Station:
The Frequency Assignment is Automatic assignment of frequency bands.
The ELINT Sectors is ELINT sectors based on tactical situation and automatic gathering of ELINT data (about RF emitters) from the controlled AJS..
The Target Distribution is Automatic target distribution of the detected radio emitting sources between automated jamming stations considering their frequency and energy capabilities.
The Jamming is Transfer of target designation data to the AJS for narrowband jamming.
The Communication is Automatic disclosure of communication lines, networks and nodes and their display on personal computer monitor against topographic map background.

Here is Automotive information for the R-330K Russian Mobile Automated Control Station:
The Engine Name is YaMZ-740.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 210.
The Cruising Range is 1,000.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 85.
The Speed, Average Cross is 50.
The Speed Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.
The Gradient is 62.
The Side Slope is 40.
The Vertical Step is 0.55.
The Trench is 1.2.
The Fording Depth is 1.75.

Here is Main Weapon System information for the R-330K Russian Mobile Automated Control Station:
The Note is There are no crew-served weapons mounted on the R-330K Russian Mobile Automated Control Station.

Here is Protection information for the R-330K Russian Mobile Automated Control Station:
The Armor is Protection against small arms fire and artillery shell splinters.
The Applique Armor is Available.
The Active Protection System is No.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is No.
The NBC Protection is Personal CBRN equipment.
The Smoke Equipment is No.
The IR Signature is No.

