This document describes the Eagle I Swiss 4x4 Reconnaissance Vehicle.

The MOWAG Eagle is a wheeled armored vehicle designed by the Swiss MOWAG corporation. It has gone through several generations of development. The current vehicle, introduced in November 2003, is the Eagle IV, which is based on the Duro IIIP chassis. The original MOWAG Eagle used the chassis and running gear of the United States Humvee, while the Eagle II and Eagle III use the chassis and running gear of the Humvee ECV. A Prototype is now part of the Military Museum Full. The MOWAG Eagle IV and V used the chassis and running gear of the Mowag Duro.

A modular 6×6 variant that was developed for an Australian Army tender made its market debut at Eurostatory 2012.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Denmark, Germany, Switzerland.

Here is Variants information for the Eagle I Swiss 4x4 Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Eagle I is INA.
The Eagle II Reconnaissance Vehicle is This variant is slightly heavier than the Eagle I with a better power-to-weight ratio. The chassis is based on the enhanced capability vehicle (ECV) Humvee. It is fitted with a metal and composite armor shell capable of withstanding NATO Standard Agreement (STANAG) Level II or III threats. A Mowag armored MBk2 observation cupola is fitted..
The Eagle III Artillery Forward Observation Vehicle is This vehicle is used for target surveillance, acquisition, observation, reconnaissance and patrol missions. It carries a crew of four (driver, surveyor, forward observer and signals operator). Panoramic bulletproof windows ring the vehicle, which is fitted with a raised roof. It is protected by high-hardness armored steel and composite armor. Additional mine protection is available as an option..
The Eagle IV Military Tactical Vehicle is The military tactical vehicle is suited as a platform for mission roles such as reconnaissance, surveillance, command or military police tasks. It is based on the advanced Mowag Duro 3 chassis technology with roll stabilizer and the De-Dion axle system. Along with the permanent all-wheel drive system, the roll stabilizer and axle system help give the vehicle high off- and on-road mobility..
The Eagle V is This is a further development of the Eagle IV with a larger payload capacity, internal volume and increased crew protection, while providing the same mobility. The vehicles can be optimized for different missions with the application of modular add-on kits. It is available in 4 x 4 and 6 x 6 variants. The former was made public in 2010 and the latter in 2012. The two variants are about 80 percent common..
The Eagle BAT ambulance is This ambulance accommodates an emergency doctor, rescue assistant and a driver/paramedic. The vehicle permits patient transport and emergency treatment under protection..
The Eagle V 6 x 6 is The is a 6 x6 compact off-road vehicle powered by a six-cylinder turbo-diesel engine coupled to a five-speed automatic transmission and a two-stage transfer case..
The VERO robotics kit is Developed by Ruag Defence in Switzerland, this is a robotics kit that can be retrofitted onto the Eagle IV, among other vehicles..

Here is System information for the Eagle I Swiss 4x4 Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Alternative Designation is Eagle I.
The Type is Reconnaissance Vehicle.
The Manufacturer is General Dynamics European Land Systems-Mowag, Kreuzlingen, Switzerland
 General Dynamics European land Systems-Germany, Kaiserslautern, Germany.
The Family is Eagle Series.
The Crew is 4 (driver, commander, signals operator, observer).
The Passenger Capacity is INA.

Here is Dimensions information for the Eagle I Swiss 4x4 Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Length is 4.90 m.
The Width is 2.28 m.
The Height is 2.35 m.
The Weight, Combat is 5,000 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Eagle I Swiss 4x4 Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Engine Name is 1 x GM LNA.
The Engine Type is 6.5 liter (397 cu in) liquid-cooled V8
 diesel.
The Engine Power is 159 hp at 3,400 rpm.
The Fuel Capacity is 95 liters.
The Transmission is Hydramatic 4L80E automatic; 4 forward/1 reverse gears.
The Range is 300.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 100.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.
The Fording Depth is 0.76 m.

Here is Main Gun information for the Eagle I Swiss 4x4 Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Note is 1 x 7.62-mm machine gun facing forward in turret. Name of 7.62mm Machine Gun: INA.

Here is Fire Control information for the Eagle I Swiss 4x4 Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is No.
The Main Gun Stabilization is No.

Here is Protection information for the Eagle I Swiss 4x4 Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Hull Armor is protection against 5.56-mm and 7.62-mm ball ammo from 33 yds (30 m) and up; and protection against 7.62-mm steel jacket ammo from 109 yds (100 m) and up.
The Turret Armor is protection against 5.56-mm and 7.62-mm ball ammo from 33 yds (30 m) and up; and protection against 7.62-mm steel jacket ammo from 109 yds (100 m) and up.
The Applique Armor is Available.
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is No.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The NBC Protection is Yes, Overpressure System.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

