This document describes the UR-15 Meteor Russian Tracked Demining Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).

The UR-15 Meteor Tracked Demining Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) is designed to clear lanes through minefields by means of a line charge. A base vehicle is used to carry the launcher and five mine-clearing line charges, which use jet engines to fly over the minefield.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is System information for the UR-15 Meteor Russian Tracked Demining Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Alternative Designation is UR-15 Meteor.
The Type is Demining Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).
The Manufacturer is ROSOBORONEXPORT Federal State Unitary Enterprise.
The Configuration is Tracked.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Operator is INA.

Here is Dimensions information for the UR-15 Meteor Russian Tracked Demining Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Length is 7.14 m.
The Width is 3.23 m.
The Height is 2.02 m.
The Weight, Combat is 22 tons.

Here is Automotive information for the UR-15 Meteor Russian Tracked Demining Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is The platform features a new hybrid electric drive system..
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Land Speed is 60 km/h.
The Maximum Amphibious Speed is 5 km/h.
The Operating Range is On batteries the vehicle can travel a distance up to 3 km..
The Batteries is Batteries enable driving in silent mode and without the use of the diesel engine..

Here is Main Weapon System information for the UR-15 Meteor Russian Tracked Demining Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Note is A remote-controlled weapon station is located on the roof of the hull (above the control compartment) and can be equipped with a 7.62×54 mm PKT machine gun..

Here is Mine Clearing Equipment information for the UR-15 Meteor Russian Tracked Demining Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Launch Tubes is Launch tubes feature on the upper frontal part and on the roof of the hull, which are likely for the Afghanit active protection system (APS)..
The Type of Line Charge is Razrez.
The Charge Range is >500 m.
The Length of Line Charge is >93 m.

Here is Protection information for the UR-15 Meteor Russian Tracked Demining Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Armor is The UR-15 Meteor retains its aluminum-steel armored body to protect against small-caliber artillery from the front angles..
The Applique Armor is Additional protection is offered, on the lower frontal plate, there are two electromagnetic attachments for protection against mines with magnetic target sensors..
The Active Protection is Afghanit active protection system (APS).
The Smoke is On the sides of the hull at the top, on the sides of the launcher, there are two blocks of six smoke grenade launchers..

