This document describes the M40 American 105mm Recoilless Rifle.

HEZBOLLAH Proliferation. The M40 recoilless rifle is a lightweight, portable, crew-served 105 mm recoilless rifle made in the United States. Intended primarily as an anti-tank weapon, it could also be employed in an antipersonnel role with the use of an antipersonnel-tracer flechette round. The bore was commonly described as being 106 mm caliber but is in fact 105 mm; the 106 mm designation was intended to prevent confusion with incompatible 105 mm ammunition from the failed M27. The air-cooled, breech-loaded, single-shot rifle fired fixed ammunition and was used primarily from a wheeled ground mount. It was designed for direct firing only, and sighting equipment for this purpose was furnished with each weapon, including an affixed spotting rifle.


Ontos M50A1 with six 106 mm M40 recoilless rifles
A limited number of M50 Ontos were built with as a self-propelled U.S. light armored tracked anti-tank vehicle developed, it has six 106 mm M40 recoilless rifles as its main armament, which could be fired in rapid succession against single targets to guarantee a kill.

Replacing the M27 recoilless rifle, the M40 primarily saw action during the Vietnam War and was widely used during various conflicts thereafter in Africa or in the Middle East. It was replaced by the BGM-71 TOW anti-tank missile system in the US armed forces.

The M40 is shaped like a long tube with an M8C .50 cal spotting rifle above. The spotting rifle fires a round whose trajectory closely matches that of the 105 mm round and gives off a puff of smoke on impact with the target. On the left side, there is an elevating wheel, in the center of which is the trigger wheel used to fine-adjust the elevation and at the same time fire the spotting rifle when pulled, and the gun when pushed. The mounting is a tripod, but the front leg has a catering wheel. On top of the mount is a traverse wheel. On the center of the traverse wheel is a locking wheel, when the wheel is down, the rifle is locked in traverse, and can only be moved right and left with the traverse wheel. When the wheel is raised, the rifle can be traversed by hand. Austria produced a two-wheeled mount for the M40.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Angola, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia, France, Gabon, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan, Jordan, Laos (People's Democratic Republic), Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Myanmar, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Non-State Actors, Norway, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Somalia, South Africa, South Korea (Republic of Korea), Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Switzerland, Syria, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, United States of America, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zimbabwe.

Here is Variants information for the M40 American 105mm Recoilless Rifle:
The Type 75 is This is a Chinese copy produced by China North Industries Corp. (Norinco). It comes in towed and self-propelled versions and with an electronic fire-control system..

Here is Ammunition information for the M40 American 105mm Recoilless Rifle:
The Type is HEAT, HEP, HEAP, or Canister.
The Caliber is 105 mm.
The Shell is 105×607mmR (HEAT, HEP, HEAP, Canister).
The Basic Load is INA.
The Note is Ammunition for the 105 mm rifle was issued as one-piece fixed cartridges. The term "fixed" means that the projectile and the cartridge case are crimped together. This ensures correct alignment of the projectile and the cartridge case. It also permits faster loading because the projectile and the cartridge case are loaded as one unit. The rear end of the cartridge case is perforated, to allow the propellant gas to escape through the vented breech, thus neutralizing recoil. Most projectiles (except HEAT) used are pre-engraved, that is, the rotating bands are cut to engage the rifled bore. If the round was not rotated slightly when loading the M40 it could result in jamming in the breech. Types of ammunition included HEAT, High Explosive Plastic-Tracer (HEP-T), canister, High Explosive Anti Personnel, and the M368 dummy round which could not be fired and was used for crew drill. The original U.S. HEAT round penetrated more than 400 mm of armor. Near the end of the M40's service life, both Austria and Sweden produced HEAT rounds for the weapon capable of penetrating more than 700 mm of armor..

