This document describes the BTR-4 Ukrainian 8x8 Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC).

The BTR-4 family is built around a standard hull with an 8x8 drive. The vehicles represent a mix of Western and Soviet AFV designs with the power pack towards the front of the vehicle (representing the former) but a very low silhouette and hull profile (the latter). The vehicles can be adapted to perform a variety of roles and provide a user with a single common platform to reduce logistics challenges.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: CFE Treaty, Indonesia, Iraq, Nigeria, Ukraine.

Here is Variants information for the BTR-4 Ukrainian 8x8 Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC):
The BTR-4 is The BTR-4 is an IFV, designed to transport a section of infantry into combat and support their movements with direct fire. It is the standard vehicle of the family and is the most widely used variant..
The BTR-4E is The BTR-4E is an upgraded version of the standard BTR-4 designed to improve the mobility and protection of the standard vehicle. The differences between the BTR-4 and the BTR-4E are minor and include an auxiliary power unit installed on the right of the hull and just below the remote weapon station..
The BTR-4M is The BTR-4M is a variant of the BTR-4 adapted for use with marine forces..
The BTR-4KSh is The BTR-4KSH is a C2 vehicle designed to provide command functions for armored formations at a removed distance from the battlespace..
The BREM-4K is The BREM-4K is an armored repair and recovery vehicle (ARRV) designed to support armored vehicles on battlefields where small-arms fire and infantry sections are the primary threats..
The BTR-4K is The BTR-4K is a C2 vehicle based on the BTR-4. It is armed with the same weapon system and designed to transport a unit commander with three staff officers into combat to support the operations of BTR-4 formations..
The BTR-4MV1 is The BTR-4MV1 is a Ukrainian Armored Personnel Carrier (APC)..

Here is System information for the BTR-4 Ukrainian 8x8 Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC):
The Alternative Designation is BTR-4.
The Type is Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC).
The Manufacturer is Kharkiv Morozov Machine Building Design Bureau.
The Family is BTR Series.
The Configuration is 8x8.
The Crew is 3.
The Passenger Capacity is 9.

Here is Dimensions information for the BTR-4 Ukrainian 8x8 Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC):
The Length is 7.76 m.
The Width is 2.932 m.
The Height is 3.17 m.
The Weight, Combat is 19,300 kg.
The Ground Clearance is 0.46 m.

Here is Automotive information for the BTR-4 Ukrainian 8x8 Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC):
The Engine Name is 3TDA-3A.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 500.
The Power-to-Weight Ratio is 25.90 hp/t.
The Fuel Capacity is INA.
The Electrical System is 24V.
The Steering is power-assisted on front four wheels.
The Maximum Land Speed is 100 km/h.
The Maximum Water Speed is 10 km/h.
The Range is 690 km.
The Gradient is 60%.
The Side Slope is 40%.
The Vertical Obstacle is 0.70 m.
The Trench is 1.80 m.

Here is System information for the BTR-4 Ukrainian 8x8 Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC) of the Main Weapon System:
The Name is 1 x ZTM-1 Autocannon.
The Type is Autocannon.
The Caliber is 30 mm.
The Length is INA.
The Barrel Length is INA.
The Weight is INA.
The Rate of FIre is 330 rds/min in single-shot, burst, or automatic modes.
The Maximum Range is 4,000 m with HE Rounds.
The Penetration is 22 mm of steel set at 40° from a range of 500 m, which is reduced to 14 mm at 1,500 m and so could be considered the maximum effective combat range against armored targets..

Here is Ammunition information for the BTR-4 Ukrainian 8x8 Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC) of the Main Weapon System:
The Type is Rifle.
The Caliber is 30.
The Cartridge is 30mm x 165 mm.
The Basic Load is 300 rounds.

Here is Coaxial Weapon System information for the BTR-4 Ukrainian 8x8 Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC):
The Note is 1 x 7.62 mm machine gun.

Here is System information for the BTR-4 Ukrainian 8x8 Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC) of the Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The Name is 2 x Baryer Missile.
The Type is Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM).
The Mission is The anti-tank long-range guided missile system BARYER, a design by the Kyiv-based State Design Bureau Luch, is intended to defeat armored targets at distances from 100 to 5,000 meters..
The Manufacturer is Luchs Design Bureau.
The Length is 1.27 m.
The Diameter is 0.13m.
The Weight is 16 kg.
The Warhead Type is The missiles can be fitted with a tandem HEAT warhead or a HE fragmentation warhead with percussion core penetration..
The Guidance System is The BARYER missile employs semiautomatic laser (SAL) guidance to enable the target, after being designated and lock-on, to be tracked automatically without further operator’s intervention (no man-in-the-loop scheme). For tracking the target, the operator employs a telescope sight, with the missile in flight being controlled and guided from a ground fi ring post. The target is designated and locked on using an optical tracker and a thermal-imaging sight, which allows 24-h operation in all weathers..
The Penetration is The missile defeats armored infantry fighting vehicle (AIFV) protection systems of all kinds – be it a composite armor, active protection system, spaced armor or explosive reactive armor (ERA), and is capable of penetrating 800mm of Rolled Homogenous Armor (RHA) behind ERA..
The Range is 5,000 m.

Here is Fire Control information for the BTR-4 Ukrainian 8x8 Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC):
The Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is Yes.
The Thermal Sight Vehicle Commander is Yes.
The Thermal Sight Gunner is Yes.
The Main Gun Stabilization is stabilized by the SBU-500-4Ts system and uses an electrical feed system..

Here is Protection information for the BTR-4 Ukrainian 8x8 Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC):
The Hull Armor is A baseline version of the BTR-4 provides all-round protection against 7.62 mm ball rounds and artillery shell splinters. It seems that the front arc withstands 12.7 mm rounds. Vehicle also withstands 6 kg anti-tank mine blasts..
The Turret Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is Add-on armor can be fitted for a higher level of protection..
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is No.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is No.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

