This document describes the Sarin: Chemical Nerve Agent.

Sarin (NATO designation GB [short for G-series, "B"]) is an extremely toxic synthetic organophosphorus compound. A colourless, odorless liquid, it is used as a chemical weapon due to its extreme potency as a nerve agent. Exposure is lethal even at very low concentrations, where death can occur within one-to-ten minutes after direct inhalation of a lethal dose,[5][6] due to suffocation from lung muscle paralysis, unless antidotes are quickly administered. People who absorb a non-lethal dose, but do not receive immediate medical treatment, may suffer permanent neurological damage.
 
Sarin is generally considered a weapon of mass destruction. Production and stockpiling of sarin was outlawed as of April 1997 by the Chemical Weapons Convention of 1993, and it is classified as a Schedule 1 substance. 

Like some other nerve agents that affect the neurotransmitter acetylcholine, sarin attacks the nervous system by interfering with the degradation of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine at neuromuscular junctions. Death will usually occur as a result of asphyxia due to the inability to control the muscles involved in breathing. Initial symptoms following exposure to sarin are a runny nose, tightness in the chest, and constriction of the pupils. Soon after, the person will have difficulty breathing and they will experience nausea and drooling. As they continue to lose control of bodily functions, they may vomit, defecate, and urinate. This phase is followed by twitching and jerking. Ultimately, the person becomes comatose and suffocates in a series of convulsive spasms. Moreover, common mnemonics for the symptomatology of organophosphate poisoning, including sarin gas, are the "killer Bs" of bronchorrhea and bronchospasm because they are the leading cause of death, and SLUDGE – salivation, lacrimation, urination, defecation, gastrointestinal distress, and emesis (vomiting). Death may follow in one to ten minutes after direct inhalation. 
Sarin has a high volatility (ease with which a liquid can turn into vapour) relative to similar nerve agents, therefore inhalation is very easy and even vapor may immediately penetrate the skin. A person's clothing can release sarin for about 30 minutes after it has come in contact with sarin gas, which can lead to exposure of other people.

Treatment measures have been described. Treatment is typically with the antidotes atropine and pralidoxime. Atropine, an antagonist to muscarinic acetylcholine receptors, is given to treat the physiological symptoms of poisoning. Since muscular response to acetylcholine is mediated through nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, atropine does not counteract the muscular symptoms. Pralidoxime can regenerate cholinesterases if administered within approximately five hours. Biperiden, a synthetic acetylcholine antagonist, has been suggested as an alternative to atropine due to its better blood–brain barrier penetration and higher efficacy.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Bosnia and Herzegovina, China, Russian Federation, Syria.

Here is System information for the Sarin: Chemical Nerve Agent:
The Alternative Designations is Trilone, Zarin.
The Military designation is GB.
The Chemical abstracts service number is 107-44-8.
The UN Number is 2810.
The Chemical Formula is C4H10FO2P.
The Appearance is Liquid.
The Color is Clear.
The Description type agent is Nerve.
The Description is Chemically similar to Organophospate.
The Lethality is Yes.
The Nonpersistent is Yes.
The Flammability* is 1.
The Health* is 4.
The Instability/reactivity* is 0.
The Flashpoint° (F) is >536.
The Boiling Point ° (F) is 297.

Here is Routes of Exposure information for the Sarin: Chemical Nerve Agent:
The Inhalation is Yes.
The Ingestion is Possible.
The Skin/eye is Yes.

Here is Methods of Dissemination information for the Sarin: Chemical Nerve Agent:
The Indoor air is Yes.
The Water is Yes.
The Food is Yes.
The Outdoor air is Yes.
The Agricultural is Yes.
The Historic usage* is Yes.

