This document describes the Liebherr FKL German All-Terrain Crane.

The Liebherr Fahrzeugkran Leicht (FKL), or Light Mobile Crane was specially designed to meet requirements of the Bundeswehr (German military). Sometimes it is referred as the FKL 10 due to its lifting capacity of 10 t. Production order was awarded to Liebherr in 1990 after severe competition. A total of 251 units were delivered to the German military alongside 208 larger and more powerful Liebherr FKM cranes with lifting capacity of 20 t. Deliveries of the FKL began in 1991 and were completed in 1994. This crane is used by all branches of the German military, including army, navy and air force.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Germany.

Here is Variants information for the Liebherr FKL German All-Terrain Crane:
The Liebherr FKM is Liebherr FKM (Fahrzeugkran Mittel or Medium Mobile Crane), is a larger and more capable machine with 6x6 configuration. It has a lifting capacity of 20 t. Its rear cargo platform has a 16 t capacity. This mobile crane was also adopted by the German military. A total of 208 units were delivered. This crane has been exported to the Netherlands (27 units). Some of these cranes are fitted with armored cabs..

Here is System information for the Liebherr FKL German All-Terrain Crane:
The Alternative Designation is Liebherr FKL.
The Type is All-Terrain Crane.
The Crew is 2.
The Bulldozer Blade is No.
The Crane is Yes.
The Ground Penetrating Radar is No.
The Bucket Loader is No.
The Back-hoe Excavator is No.
The Ditch Trencher is Noi.
The Recovery Winch is 85 m of cable..
The Winch Capacity is 20 tons.
The Maximum Lifting Capacity is 10 tons.
The Towed Load is 6.5 tons.
The Note is At its maximum reach the crane can lift loads with a maximum weight of 2.4 t. This crane does not requires any counterweight..

Here is Dimensions information for the Liebherr FKL German All-Terrain Crane:
The Length is 9.22.
The Width is 2.5.
The Height is 3.2.
The Weight is 16.1 tons.
The Weight with add-on Equipment is 17.6 tons.
The Crane Length is 13.

Here is Automotive information for the Liebherr FKL German All-Terrain Crane:
The Engine Name is KHD F8L513.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 256.
The Cruising Range is 800.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 75.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.
The Gradient is 60.
The Side Slope is 20.
The Vertical Step is 0.5.
The Trench is 0.6.
The Fording Depth is 1.2.

Here is Protection information for the Liebherr FKL German All-Terrain Crane:
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is No.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is No.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is No.

