This document describes the UM620 Norwgian Tactical Broadband Wireless Module.

UM620 – TACTICAL BROADBAND WIRELESS MODULE

Robust broadband wireless connec tion for
mobile combat zone users
UM620 operates without any Master in the network. UM620 provides ad-hoc
functionality for fast and easy establishment of networks.
Voice connection to intercom systems is utilized through digital or analogue
interface.
UM620 provides DHCP services and routing for connected LAN subscribers.
Multi hop capability ensures the user to reach intended destination for both
voice and data.
The software defined solution of UM620 and the radio’s flexible software
facilitates new services to be implemented in support of customer specific
applications.
The UM620 is easy to use, and managed using the integrated web-based
management system or by using the SNMP interface.
DISMOUNTED CAPABILITY
The UM620 is fully compatible with the soldier radio SR600, and enables
integration between vehicles and dismounted troops.
NETWORK SERVICES
The UM620 provides an Ethernet interface with DHCP server capability to the
local LAN of the vehicle.
Various IP routing services are provided within the radio network as well as
towards external networks. Multicast and Unicast services are supported.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Australia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Nations, United States of America.

Here is System information for the UM620 Norwgian Tactical Broadband Wireless Module:
The Alternative Designation is UM620.
The Type is Tactical Broadband Wireless Module.
The Crew is 1.
The Radio Features is The UM620 operates from 225 to 400 MH z to provide a good balance
bet ween range in non-LOS terrain, data rate and RF power output.
The radio has proven multipath capabilities and selec table RF output
from 100mW to 20W. The radio can provide different net work capacities based on selec ted
RF bandwidth and coding.
The radio may operate in a pure data radio mode or in combined
voice and data modes. Dynamic configuration of wave-form is possible..
The Software is Depending on chosen net work operation, the radio can handle a
number of parallel voice net works and IP multi hop data net works in
one RF network..
The Mounting is The UM620s small size and weight allows for flexible mounting in the
Power Mounting Unit (PMU) or in a combined Dual Channel Radio mount..
The MIL-STD is The UM620 complies with MIL-STD 810G requirements to tac tical
equipment..
The Protocols is IP versions IPv4 / IPv6
LAN protocols Ethernet.
The Services is Network Service DHCP
External networks OSPF/RIP/Static routing
Multi hop capability Voice and data
Multicast
Unicast.
The Mangement is Web (https)
SNMPv3.
The RF Characteristics is Frequency Range 225-400 MHz
Power 100mW to 20 W.
The Network Capacity is Voice: up to 5 voice nets
Data rates: up to 2500 kbps
RF bandwidth: up to 5 MHz.
The LAN is IEEE 802.3
 10/100 Base-T/TX.
The Audio is Dual channel.
The GPS is External
 Internal.
The Power Supply is Input Voltage
11-32 V DC.
The Operating Temperature is -35ºC to +55ºC.

Here is Dimensions information for the UM620 Norwgian Tactical Broadband Wireless Module:
The Height is 55 mm.
The Width is 245 mm.
The Depth is 156 mm.
The Weight, Combat is 2.2 kg.

