This document describes the Ababil-2 Iranian Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

Hezbollah and Houthi Proliferation. The Ababil-2 Iranian Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) is an Iranian single-engine multirole tactical UAV manufactured by Iran Aircraft Manufacturing Industrial Company (HESA). The Ababil-2 has an improved flight-control system. The most common Ababil-2 variant is a target drone variant used for training air-defense crews. Rudimentary surveillance capabilities can be used as a loitering munition but are mainly used as a target drone.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Non-State Actors, Sudan, Syria.

Here is Variants information for the Ababil-2 Iranian Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Ababil-B is The Ababil-B is a target drone used for air defense unit training; it features a radar augmentation device..
The Ababil-S is This is the reconnaissance configuration, also known as the Ababil 5. It includes an electro-optical (EO) camera in the nose. It also has a real-time imagery downlink..
The Ababil-T is This is a strike variant. It comes with a daylight television camera, located underneath the fuselage. The variant can also carry a medium-sized high-explosive warhead. The night-time shootdown of an Ababil during the Israel-Hezbollah conflict in July-August of 2006 suggested that its sensor package had been modified to include an infrared system. The Ababil-T has a twin-tail configuration..
The Ababil Jet/Hadaf 1 is This version was said to be in development in 2007. It is powered by a TEM Toloue-4 840-lb (3.7 kN) static thrust axial jet engine used on the C-802/Noor anti-ship missile and UAV/target drone..
The Ababil-3 is This variant has a top speed of 124 mph (200 km/h) with a range of 60 mi (100 km), a ceiling of 16,400 ft (5,000 m), and an endurance of four hours. A night-vision capability is integrated..

Here is Dimensions information for the Ababil-2 Iranian Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is 2.88.
The Width (Wing Span) is 3.25.
The Height is 0.91.
The Wing Area is 1.76 m2.
The Empty Weight is 30.
The Max Takeoff Weight is 83.
The Payload Capacity is 40.

Here is Automotive information for the Ababil-2 Iranian Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is 1 × WAE-342.
The Engine Type is Twin-cylinder piston engine.
The Engine Power is 25.
The Fuel Capacity is 16 Liters.
The Maximum Range is 120.
The Speed, Maximum is 370.
The Speed, Cruise is 250–305.
The Endurance is 2.
The Service Ceiling is 3,000.
The Propellers is 2-bladed.

Here is Communications information for the Ababil-2 Iranian Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Radio is Data Link.
The Retrans Radio is INA.

Here is Fire Control information for the Ababil-2 Iranian Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Fire Control System Type is No.
The Fire Control Radar is No.
The Radar Type is INA.
The Laser Rangefinder is INA.
The Full-Motion Video is INA.
The Still Camera is INA.
The Thermal Imaging Sensors is INA.
The Electro Optical Pod is No.
The SAR/GMTI is No.

Here is Protection information for the Ababil-2 Iranian Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Fuselage is Cylindrical fuselage.
The Stealth Properties is No.
The Heat Signature Reduction is No.
The Add on Armor is No.
The EW is No.
The EW Counter Measures / CCM is No.
The Counter Measures (Chaffs/Flares) is No.

