This document describes the Repellent I Russian 8x8 Anti-Drone Warfare Complex.

The Repellent I Russian 8x8 Anti-Drone Warfare Complex is designed to suppress and destroy miniaturized enemy drones no larger than a few dozen centimeters and no heavier than a few kilograms.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is System information for the Repellent I Russian 8x8 Anti-Drone Warfare Complex:
The Alternative Designation is Repellent I.
The Type is Anti-Drone Warfare Complex.
The Manufacturer is JSC Scientific & Technical Center of Electronic Warfare (STC-EW) design bureau.
The Configuration is 8x8.
The Cab Seating is 2.
The Cargo Capacity is INA.
The Electronic Warfare Capability is The system is capable of automatically detecting and neutralizing enemy spy drones at distances of over 30 km, suppressing their control sensors via powerful jamming, or through directed interference to the drones’ satellite navigation systems..
The Intelligence Station is Repellent-1’s unique, supersensitive electronic intelligence station uses enemy drones’ control signals to detect them across long distances at any time of day or night, and under any weather conditions, including the extreme conditions of the Arctic..
The Workstation is The system is operated from a workstation in the control cabin on the back of the truck, situated next to a collapsible telescopic mast, data from which is fed into the control cabin. The upper section of the mast contains the heart of the complex – electronic intelligence and jamming equipment, together with a panoramic camera. On two monitors, personnel can observe the local radiofrequency environment, as well as any counter-jamming systems which are aimed against it..
The  is .
The  is .
The  is .
The  is .
The Operating Temperature is The complex is designed to operate in temperatures below —45° Celsius and strong winds, or at up to 50° Celsius..

Here is Dimensions information for the Repellent I Russian 8x8 Anti-Drone Warfare Complex:
The Length is 9.4 m.
The Width is 2.7 m.
The Height is 3.35 m.
The Weight, Combat is 20 tons.

Here is Automotive information for the Repellent I Russian 8x8 Anti-Drone Warfare Complex:
The Engine Name is TMZ-8424.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 425.
The Maximum Range is 1,000 km.
The Maximum Speed is 85 km/h.
The Amphibious is No.
The Gradient is 60%.
The Side Slope is 40%.
The Vertical Step is 0.6 m.
The Trench is 2.0 m.
The Fording is 1.0 m.

Here is Protection information for the Repellent I Russian 8x8 Anti-Drone Warfare Complex:
The Armor is Repellent-1’s control cabin life support systems are designed to protect personnel from small-caliber fire, as well as chemical and biological attack..
The Applique Armor is No.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is No.

