This document describes the Naze'at 10-H Iranian Close-Range Ballistic Missile.

Hezbollah Proliferation. The Naze'at 6-H and Naze'at 10-H (Persian: نازعات‎) are two Iranian long-range artillery rockets with ranges of about 100 km. The Naze'at 10-H is larger, more powerful, and has a longer range than the Nazeat 6-H. Like Iran's similar shaped Zelzal rockets, Naze'at rockets do not have a guidance system. Both systems are also widely known without the -H suffix, as the Naze'at 6 and Naze'at 10.

The Naze'at 10 is launched from a transporter erector launcher (TEL) and carries a conventional warhead, and potentially a chemical or biological one. A complete Naze'at system includes a TEL and communications vans, meteorological vans, and a GPS system for surveying the launch site. Both Naze'at rockets have a closing velocity of mach 4-5. The reliability and accuracy of Naze'at rockets is assessed as poor.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Iran (Islamic Republic of), Non-State Actors.

Here is Variants information for the Naze'at 10-H Iranian Close-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Naze'at 6-H is Earlier version with less range compared to the Naze'at 10-H.

Here is Dimensions (Chassis) information for the Naze'at 10-H Iranian Close-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Weight, Combat is INA.
The Ground Pressure is INA.

Here is Automotive (Chassis) information for the Naze'at 10-H Iranian Close-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is INA.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Cruising Range is INA.
The Speed, Maximum Road is INA.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is INA.
The Fording Depth is INA.

Here is Communications information for the Naze'at 10-H Iranian Close-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Primary is INA.

Here is Missile Launcher information for the Naze'at 10-H Iranian Close-Range Ballistic Missile of the Missile System:
The Name is INA.
The Type is Transporter Erector Launcher.
The Fire on the Move is No.

Here is Missile information for the Naze'at 10-H Iranian Close-Range Ballistic Missile of the Missile System:
The Name is Naze'at 10-H rocket.
The Type is Long-Range Artillery Rocket.
The Length is 8,020.
The Diameter is 457.
The Initial Weight is 1,830.
The Propellant Weight is 865.
The Propellant Type is Solid Hydroxyl-terminated polybutadiene.
The Warhead Weight is 230.
The Maximum Range is 125.
The Minimum Range is 110.
The CEP is <5% Max. range.
The Average Action Time is 10 seconds.
The Specific Impulse is 240 seconds.
The Service Life is 7 Years.
The Speed is Mach 5.

Here is Fire Control information for the Naze'at 10-H Iranian Close-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is INA.
The Thermal Sight Vehicle Commander is No.
The Thermal Sight Gunner is No.
The Main Gun Stabilization is INA.

Here is Protection information for the Naze'at 10-H Iranian Close-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Turret Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is INA.
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is No.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is INA.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is No.

