This document describes the Jackal (MWMIK) British 4x4 Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle.

The Jackal or MWMIK (pronounced EmWimmick) or Mobility Weapon-Mounted Installation Kit is a family of vehicles designed and developed by Supacat Ltd at their factory in Honiton, Devon (UK) for use by the British Army and Royal Air Force Regiment. Supacat re-branded to SC Group in September 2015, the Supacat brand retained for the group's core defense business.

The primary role of the vehicle in the British Army is deep battlespace reconnaissance, rapid assault and fire support - roles where mobility, endurance and maneuverability are important - and it has also been used for convoy protection.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Australia, Denmark, Estonia, New Zealand, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the Jackal (MWMIK) British 4x4 Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Jackal 2 is This is an upgraded variant with a more durable chassis and a Cummins 6.7-liter diesel engine, developing 180 hp. Two blast-protected seats are located at the rear of the vehicle. The British army has reportedly ordered 110 Jackal 2s..
The Coyote is This is a six-wheel variant of the Jackal capable of carrying 1.5 tons of cargo and a four-person crew. It is intended to serve as a logistics supply vehicle for long-range Jackal patrols..
The Extenda 6 x 6 is This is a modular upgrade of the 4 x 4 Jackal consisting of a basket and axle with interfaces to the propshaft of the standard vehicle. It can be changed from the four-wheel to the six-wheel version in about two hours..

Here is System information for the Jackal (MWMIK) British 4x4 Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Alternative Designation is Jackal; MWMIK.
The Type is Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle.
The Manufacturer is Supacat, Honiton, U.K. (design)
 Devonport Management (DML) (now part of Babcock Marine), Plymouth, U.K. (production).
The Configuration is 4x4.
The Crew is 2.
The Passenger Capacity is 1.
The Air-Transportability is It is air-transportable by CH-47 Chinook helicopters and C-130 Hercules cargo aircraft..

Here is Dimensions information for the Jackal (MWMIK) British 4x4 Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Length is 5.39 m.
The Width is 2.00 m.
The Height is 1.97 m.
The Ground Clearance is 1.00 m.
The Unloaded Weight is 4,000 kg.
The Gross Weight is 6,650 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Jackal (MWMIK) British 4x4 Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Engine Name is 1 x Cummins ISBe Euro3.
The Engine Type is 6-cylinder 5.9-liter turbocharged diesel.
The Engine Power is 185 bhp at 2,500 rpm.
The Engine Torque is 650 Nm at 1,500 rpm.
The Transmission is Allison 2500 automatic 5-speed.
The Main Fuel Tank is 147 liter.
The Auxiliary Fuel Tank is 50 liter.
The Maximum On-Road Speed is 130 kph.
The Maximum Off-Road Speed is 80 kph.
The Maximum Range is 800 km.
The Fording is 1.0 m.

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Jackal (MWMIK) British 4x4 Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Note is The Jackal can be armed with a variety of weapons, including combinations of .50-caliber machine guns; 40-mm grenade launchers; and 7.62-mm general-purpose machine guns..

Here is Protection information for the Jackal (MWMIK) British 4x4 Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Armor is The vehicle incorporates a fully integrated protection system and reinforced armor plating..
The Applique Armor is Available, A Jankel Armoring modular armor package consists of a mix of hard plate, spall liners and blast-attenuation measures.
The Active Protection System is Yes.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

