This document describes the Type GCZ-110 Chinese Tracked Multi-Purpose Engineer Vehicle (TMPEV).

The Type GCZ-110 Chinese Tracked Multi-Purpose Engineer Vehicle (TMPEV) main roles are to provide combat engineer support while accompanying armored/mechanized troops, which includes road repair, emergency military road construction, non-explosive obstacle clearing, and towing and recovery operations.
The GCZ110 can also be used to construct technical weapons emplacements and flat-bottomed pits. The vehicle is mainly composed of a modified Type 79 tank chassis, and combined dozer blade, crane, and winch.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is Variants information for the Type GCZ-110 Chinese Tracked Multi-Purpose Engineer Vehicle (TMPEV):
The Type GCZ-112 Chinese Tracked Multi-Purpose Engineer Vehicle (TMPEV) is The Type GCZ-112 Chinese Tracked Multi-Purpose Engineer Vehicle (TMPEV) main roles are to provide combat engineer support while accompanying armored/mechanized troops, which includes road repair, emergency military road construction, non-explosive obstacle clearing, and towing and recovery operations. The GCZ112 can also be used to construct technical weapons emplacements and flat-bottomed pits. The vehicle is mainly composed of a modified Type 79 tank chassis, and combined dozer blade, crane, and winch..

Here is System information for the Type GCZ-110 Chinese Tracked Multi-Purpose Engineer Vehicle (TMPEV):
The Alternative Designation is Type GCZ-110.
The Type is Tracked Multi-Purpose Engineer Vehicle (TMPEV).
The Manufacturer is NORINCO - China North Industries Group Corporation - CNGC.
The Role is Road repair, construction, construction of field defenses, non-explosive obstacle clearance, towing, and recovery.
The Crew is 3.
The Chassis is T-79 tank chassis with T-96 suspension.
The Bulldozer Blade is Yes.
The Crane is Yes.
The Ground Penetrating Radar is No.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The Proofing Roller is No.
The Bucket Loader is No.
The Back-hoe Excavator is No.
The Winch is Yes, It is also fitted with a winch which has a maximum towing force of 300 kN with pay out speed being 0 to 21 m/min and take up speed a maximum of 0 to 7 m/min..

Here is Dimensions information for the Type GCZ-110 Chinese Tracked Multi-Purpose Engineer Vehicle (TMPEV):
The Length, Overall is 9.90 m.
The Length, Transport Configuration is 7.50 m.
The Width, Overall is 4.10 m.
The Width, Transport Configuration is 3.30 m.
The Height, Overall is 4.10 m.
The Height, Transport Configuration is 3.00 m.
The Weight is 37,500 kg.

Here is Dozer Blade information for the Type GCZ-110 Chinese Tracked Multi-Purpose Engineer Vehicle (TMPEV):
The Location is Mounted at the front of the hull is a hydraulically operated multipurpose dozer blade, which can be used as a straight dozer blade or a V-shaped blade..
The Power Source is Hydraulic.
The Maximum Cutting Depth is 400 mm.
The Note is This is claimed to have the capability to bulldoze up to 396 m³ of soil an hour with a travel distance of 30 m..

Here is Crane information for the Type GCZ-110 Chinese Tracked Multi-Purpose Engineer Vehicle (TMPEV):
The Power Source is Hydraulic.
The Telescopic is Yes.
The Telescopic Range is 3.5 m.
The Capacity is 16 tons.
The Capacity While Moving is 3 tons.
The Maximum Height of Crane is 8.4 m.

Here is Automotive information for the Type GCZ-110 Chinese Tracked Multi-Purpose Engineer Vehicle (TMPEV):
The Engine Name is 12150L-7BW (same at T-79 tank).
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 730.
The Cruising Range is 400.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 45.
The Speed, Average Cross Country is INA.
The Speed, Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.
The Gradient is 60 %.
The Side Slope is 30 %.
The Vertical Step is 0.7 m.
The Trench is 2.7 m.
The Fording Depth is 1.4 m.

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Type GCZ-110 Chinese Tracked Multi-Purpose Engineer Vehicle (TMPEV):
The Note is The Type GCZ-110 carries no defensive armament..

Here is Protection information for the Type GCZ-110 Chinese Tracked Multi-Purpose Engineer Vehicle (TMPEV):
The Hull Armor is Protection of the Type GCZ-110 should be similar to that of the Type 96 main battle tank. This engineer vehicle was designed to operate under enemy fire..
The Applique Armor is Capable.
The Rubber Skirts is Yes, to protect against RPGs.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

