This document describes the FN MAG French 7.62mm General-Purpose Machine Gun.

Hezbollah Proliferation. The FN MAG is a Belgian 7.62 mm general-purpose machine gun, designed in the early 1950s at Fabrique Nationale (FN) by Ernest Vervier. It has been used by more than 80 countries and it has been made under license in several countries, including Argentina, Canada (as the C6 GPMG), Egypt, India, and the United Kingdom.

The weapon's name is an abbreviation for Mitrailleuse d'Appui Général, meaning "general support machine gun". The MAG is available in three primary versions: the standard, infantry Model 60-20 machine gun, the Model 60-40 coaxial machine gun for armored fighting vehicles, and the Model 60-30 aircraft variant.

The MAG Model 60-20 is an automatic, air-cooled, gas-operated machine gun, firing belt-fed 7.62×51mm NATO from an open bolt.

The MAG uses ignited powder gases vented through a port in the barrel to propel a gas piston rod connected to the locking assembly (it uses a long-stroke piston system). The barrel breech is locked with a vertically tilting, downward locking lever mechanism that is connected to the bolt carrier through an articulated joint. The locking shoulder and camming surfaces that guide the locking lever are located at the base of the receiver. The MAG uses a series of proven design concepts from other successful firearms, for example, the locking mechanism is modeled on that of the Browning M1918 (BAR) automatic rifle, and the feed and trigger mechanisms are from the WWII-era MG 42 universal machine gun.

The MAG fires from an open bolt. Both the spring-powered extractor and ejector are contained in the bolt. After firing, spent cartridge casings are removed through an ejection port located at the base of the receiver (a spring-loaded dust cover of the MG42 type covers the ejection port). The machine gun has a striker firing mechanism (the bolt carrier acts as the striker as it contains a channel that houses the firing pin, which protrudes out from the surface of the bolt upon firing), an automatic-only trigger assembly, and a manual cross-bolt push-button safety, which is located above the pistol grip. With the safety placed in the safe setting, the sear mechanism is disabled. Safety can only be engaged with the weapon cocked.

The weapon feeds from the left side from open-link, metal ammunition belts: either the American disintegrating M13 belt (NATO standard) or the segmented German DM1 belt, whose 50-round sections can be linked through a cartridge. In order to adapt the weapon to feed from one belt type to the other, several components of the feed mechanism need to be reconfigured since the position of the feed tray's cartridge stop and pawl angles in the top cover are different. The MAG features a pawl-type feeding mechanism that continues to move the feed link during both the rearward and forward cycles of the reciprocating bolt carrier, producing a smooth belt flow. The feeding mechanism's three pawls are actuated by a roller connected to the bolt carrier. The feed channel rail, feed link, both feed slides, and the feed tray are chrome plated. The top cover body is an anodized aluminum casting. In the infantry assault role, the weapon can be fitted with a sheet metal container that houses a 50-round belt and is attached to the left side of the receiver.

The quick-change barrel has a slotted flash suppressor. The barrel's chamber and bore are chromium-lined and the barrel has four right-hand grooves with a 305 mm (1:12 in) rifling twist rate. Also attached to the barrel is the front sight base, carry handle, and gas block (equipped with an exhaust-type gas regulator valve with three settings). The barrel assembly weighs 3,050 g (6.72 lb) and of the 630 mm (24.80 in) long barrel, a portion of 487.5 mm (19.19 in) is rifled. The MAG takes zero shifts between barrel assemblies into account by making the front sight of the assemblies adjustable with the help of tools.

The machine gun is fitted with a folding bipod (attached to the end of the gas cylinder) that can be adjusted for height. For carrying or use as a forearm, the aluminum legs can be folded back and secured in slots under the receiver by hooks and a spring-loaded catch. When firing from the hip, the bipod legs remain extended and the left leg is gripped for support. The bipod can be removed from the gas cylinder by tapping out a rolling pin in the gas cylinder head until it is flush and the bipod can be rotated enough to clear the gas cylinder's retaining lugs.

The MAG is also equipped with a fixed wooden stock, pistol grip, carrying handle and iron sights that consist of a forward blade (adjustable mechanically for both windage and elevation) and a folding leaf rear sight with an aperture in the down position for firing distances from 200 to 800 m (219 to 875 yd) in 100 m (109 yd) increments and an open U-notch for ranges from 800 to 1,800 m (875 to 1,969 yd) graduated every 100 m (109 yd). The rear sight is hinged to a base with protective ears that is integral to the receiver's upper forging. The iron sight line has an 848 mm (33.4 in) sight radius.

The MAG's receiver is constructed from sheet metal stampings reinforced by steel plates and rivets. The front is reinforced to accept the barrel nut and gas cylinder which is permanently mounted. Guide rails that support the bolt assembly and piston extension during their reciprocating movement are riveted to the side plates. The bolt's guide rails are shaped downward to drive the locking lever into engagement with the locking shoulder, which is also riveted to the side plates. The rear of the receiver has been reinforced and slotted to accept the butt stock.

In the static machine gun role, the weapon is mounted on a tripod that offers a higher degree of accuracy and control than the bipod, for example, the FN 360° tripod, which features an elevation adjustment mechanism that enables the weapon's bore axis to be maintained from 300 mm (11.8 in) to 600 mm (23.6 in), has a 30° to +15° elevation change and a 360° traverse range. When used in the anti-aircraft role, the machine gun can increase the cyclic rate of fire from 650 up to 1,000 rpm by regulating a user-adjustable gas valve.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia, Finland, France, Gabon, Gambia, Georgia, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Jamaica, Jordan, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Libya, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mexico, Monaco, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Non-State Actors, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sweden, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Here is Variants information for the FN MAG French 7.62mm General-Purpose Machine Gun:
The MAG 60.20 is Standard infantry version with pistol grip, fixed buttstock and bipod; Many subvariants including the T3 (L7A1) and T6 (L7A2).
The MAG 60.30 is Fixed aircraft version, firing from a solenoid trigger; Capable, at least in some subvariants, of left and right hand feeding.
The MAG 60.40 is Coaxial version for armoured fighting vehicles; Many sub variants including the T3 (M240).

Here is FN MAG, 7.62mm General Purpose Machine Gun information for the FN MAG French 7.62mm General-Purpose Machine Gun of the System:
The Name is FN MAG, 7.62mm General Purpose Machine Gun.
The Type is 7.62.
The Max Rate of Fire is 650-1000.
The Weight is 11.8.
The Length is 1,263.
The Barrel Length is 630.
The Width is 118.7.
The Height is 263.
The Effective Firing Range (Bipod) is 800.
The Effective Firing Range (Tripod) is 1,800.
The Maximum Firing Range is 3,500.
The Feed System is Non-disintegrating DM1 or disintegrating M13 linked belt.
The Sights is Folding leaf sight with aperture and notch, front blade.

Here is Ammunition information for the FN MAG French 7.62mm General-Purpose Machine Gun of the System:
The Type is Rifle.
The Caliber is 7.62.
The Cartridge is 7.62×51mm NATO.
The Muzzle Velocity is 840.
The Maximum Firing Range is 3,500.

