This document describes the BAT-M Russian Tracked Route-Clearing Vehicle.

The BAT-M tractor dozer consists of the AT-T heavy tractor, based on the very early chassis and lower hull of the T-44, and later T-54/T-55 tanks with 500 mm wide tracks and a 13 teeth drive sprocket wheel.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Cambodia, CFE Treaty, Russian Federation.

Here is Variants information for the BAT-M Russian Tracked Route-Clearing Vehicle:
The BAT is Initial version..
The BAT-2 is The BAT-2 armored tracklayer is used for road and track clearing and grading. It can drive graded tracks across various terrain and snow. Vehicle is also used to create earth barriers, dig ditches. It can be also used during disaster relief operation. The BAT-2 is also described as the combat engineering vehicle due to it's versatility. This vehicle was intended to supplement the previous unarmored BAT-M high-speed tracklayer. The BAT-2 fulfils a wider range of missions than the BAT-M..

Here is System information for the BAT-M Russian Tracked Route-Clearing Vehicle:
The Alternative Designations is BAT-M.
The Type is Route-Clearing Vehicle.
The Manufacturer is Company: INA; Country: Russia.
The Crew is 2.
The Crane is Vehicle also has a 2 ton capacity crane at the rear of the cab. The crane has a maximum boom reach of 7.3 m and can be used to clear obstacles..
The Winch is Fitted with a 25 tons capacity winch with 100 m of cable..

Here is Dimensions information for the BAT-M Russian Tracked Route-Clearing Vehicle:
The Length with Blade Lowered is 10 m.
The Length in Travel Configuration is 7.0 m.
The Width over Blade is 4.85 m.
The Blade Angle is straight (5 m wide); 55° (4 m wide); 110° (4.5 m wide).
The Blade Control is Electrohydraulic.
The Height is 2.95 m.
The Working Capacity is max 150 m³/h (excavation); max 200 m³/h (dozing) (soil dependant).
The Weight is 27,500 kg.
The Ground Pressure is 0.71 kg/cm² (10.10 psi).

Here is Automotive information for the BAT-M Russian Tracked Route-Clearing Vehicle:
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 581 hp.
The Fuel Capacity is INA.
The Fuel Consumption is 140–190 litres.
The Maximum Speed is 35 km/h.
The Working Speed is 1.5–10 km/h.
The Range is 550 km.
The Gradient is 45%.
The Vertical Obstacle is 1.0 m.
The Trench is 2.1 m.
The Fording is 0.750 m.

Here is Main Weapon System information for the BAT-M Russian Tracked Route-Clearing Vehicle:
The Note is The BAT-M carries no defensive armament..

Here is Protection information for the BAT-M Russian Tracked Route-Clearing Vehicle:
The Hull Armor is Protection from small arms fire and shell splinters.
The Applique Armor is INA.
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is No.
The Mine Clearing is Yes.
The NBC Equipment is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is No.

