This document describes the 3M6 Shmel (AT-1 Snapper) Russian Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM).

The 3M6 Shmel (AT-1 Snapper) Russian Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM) is an MCLOS wire-guided Anti-tank missile of the Soviet Union. Its GRAU designation is "3M6" and its NATO reporting name is AT-1 Snapper.

Too large to be man-portable, it was typically deployed from specialized vehicles or helicopters. The missile was intended to supplement traditional anti-tank weapons, like the 100 mm anti-tank gun whose accuracy beyond 1,500 m is poor. The missile's accuracy in contrast remained high as far as its maximum range of 2,000 m.

However, the system's bulk, slow speed, and poor combat accuracy drove the development of later SACLOS systems, like the AT-5 Spandrel.

The 3M6 Shmel was based on the western ATGMs of the time, such as the Nord Aviation SS.10; however, it is considerably larger. It was developed by the Special Mortar Design Bureau (SKB Gladkostvolnoi Artillery) in Kolomna, who was also responsible for the AT-3 Sagger.

Development of the missile proceeded rapidly, with the first unguided flights in April 1958 followed by controlled flights in June and July 1958. On 28 August 1959, the new technology was shown to the command of armed forces. On 1 August 1960, it was accepted into the service. It was first publicly displayed in 1963.

The missile is guided to the target by means of a joystick, which requires some skill on the part of the operator. The operator's adjustments are transmitted to the missile via a thin wire that trails behind the missile.

The missile is steered by an unconventional arrangement of vibrating spoilers.

As stated before, MCLOS requires considerable skill on the part of the operator. The system's effectiveness in combat drove the development of missiles based on the easier to use SACLOS system.

One problem with the missile is the amount of time it takes to reach maximum range—around 20 seconds—giving the intended target time to take action, either by retreating behind an obstacle, laying down a smoke screen or firing on the operator. Also, the large size of the missile means that only a few rounds can be carried; the BRDM-1 vehicle can only carry three missiles.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Afghanistan, Cuba, Egypt, Hungary, Mongolia, North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Romania, Syria.

Here is Variants information for the 3M6 Shmel (AT-1 Snapper) Russian Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The 2P26 is The 2K15 Shmel system was the first operational 3M6 missile system. It is based on the GAZ-69 4x4 utility vehicle. This is a soft skin vehicle with four launch rails for the 3M6 facing rearwards. Before firing the vehicle must make a U-turn and the operator dismounts with the guidance control box. Since the 3M6 is missile with MCLOS guidance firing must be carried out while stationary..
The 2P27 is The 2K16 Shmel system is a second generation system that remedies much of the drawbacks of the earlier 2K15. It retains the 3M6 missile and associated limited capabilities, but the 2P27 launch vehicle is based on the BRDM-1 chassis. This offers basic armor protection, increased cross terrain mobility and amphibious capability. Since the three launch rails face forwards face forwards it is easier to position the vehicle for firing. Also the missiles can be launched from the vehicle..

Here is System information for the 3M6 Shmel (AT-1 Snapper) Russian Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The Alternative Designation is 3M6 Shmel; NATO: AT-1 Snapper.
The Type is Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM).
The Manufacturer is Special Mortar Design Bureau (SKB Gladkostvolnoi Artillery) in Kolomna.
The Crew is Too large to be manportable, it was typically deployed from specialised vehicles or helicopters..
The Configuration is Conical nose, cylindrical body, broad, cropped-delta wings in cruciform layout with vibrating trailing-edge spoilers.
The Engine is Solid-fuel rocket.
The Guidance System is Command-to-line-of-sight (CLOS); operator may be 50 meters from the
launcher.
The Speed is 105 m/sec.
The Maximum Range is 2,700 m.
The Minimum Range is 370 m.
The Warhead Type is High-explosive anti-tank (HEAT).
The Penetration is 356-380 mm.
The TIme to Maximum Range is 20 seconds.

Here is Dimensions information for the 3M6 Shmel (AT-1 Snapper) Russian Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The Length is 1.13 m.
The Diameter is 140 mm.
The Wingspan is 0.775 m.
The Weight, Combat is 22.25 kg.
The Warhead Weight is 5.25 kg.

