This document describes the QW-18 Chinese Man-Portable Infrared Guided Surface-to-Air Missile.

QW-18 is a new all-climate man transportable shoulder-fired anti-aircraft missile system, with outstanding anti-interference function of the infrared, to attack the enemy to all low-altitude, low altitude strikes, and speeds of 300 m / s following a variety of flying target. QW-18 biggest function is the usage of a twin-band passive infrared seeker, the target plume and skinning heat detection, as a way to firmly lock the goal.

QW-18 system can combine with other air defense weapons to shape a entire air defense system, together with the combination of anti-aircraft missile and artillery guns systems; can also be converted into air to air missiles and small vessels in the configuration on the ship-air missiles and so on.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is Variants information for the QW-18 Chinese Man-Portable Infrared Guided Surface-to-Air Missile:
The QW-1M is QW-1M is a development of QW-1, and first revealed in Zhuhai Air Show. The missile is considered as a third generation MANPAD by Chinese, and many domestic Chinese media sources claim that it is the Chinese equivalent of Soviet SA-18 Grouse, which it strongly resembles. Like its predecessor QW-1, QW-1M also appeared to incorporate technologies of FIM-92 Stinger. Various western sources have postulated that China had likely obtained FIM-92 Stinger samples from either Afghan guerrilla or Pakistan, or even Iran, but such claims have yet to be confirmed. The missile is slightly heavier than QW-1, weighing at 18 kg for the entire system, and it is claimed to have better ECCM capability and better capability to engage low-flying aircraft in comparison to QW-1.[citation needed] Some have been supplied to Kata'ib Hezbollah..
The QW-1A is QW-1A is a derivative of QW-1M, with the adaptation of man-portable radar weighing 30 kg and a range of 15 km, and it is carried by the observer. The associating fire control system enables various QW-1A units to be linked up and thus increasing the effectiveness by forming an air defense network, which in turn, could be integrated into large air defense network. Although the entire QW-1A system including radar / fire control system could be carried by a crew of 2-men team, it is often mounted on vehicles..
The QW-11 (QW-1G) is QW-11 is a development of QW family that is specifically designed to engage terrain hugging cruise missiles, while retaining the capability of engaging low-flying aircraft. QW-11 was first revealed at Zhuhai Air Show in 2002. A new combined impact and proximity fuze is developed to provide better capability against cruise missiles.

Length: 1.477 m
Missile weight: 10.69 kg
System weight: 16.9 kg
Warhead: 1.42 kg
Range: 0.5 – 5000 m
Altitude: 30 m - 4 km
Reaction time: 10 sec.
The QW-18 is QW-18 is the development of the QW-11G with an improved seeker. QW-18 first appeared in Zhuai Air Show with QW-11 and QW-11G in 2002. An enhanced dual band infrared seeker is developed so that the target is not only tracked via the exhaust heat, but also the temperature difference of the skin of the target. These improvements provided better capabilities against terrain-hugging cruise missiles at supersonic speed. Externally, QW-18 is identical to QW-11G / QW-11..
The QW-2 is QW-2 is a missile with all aspect attack capability and improved ECCM capability. There are two types of seeker for QW-2: the first is the dual band infrared passive seeker first revealed in 1998, and an imaging IR (ImIR) seeker has been designed sometimes later. The fuse is similar to that of QW-18. The minimum altitude is decreased to 10 m, thus further improving the capability against low-flying cruise missile and hovering helicopters that suddenly pop up from hiding..
The QW-3 is This is the Chinese equivalent of French Mistral missile, with fuse developed from that of QW-2. The missile is unique among Chinese MANPAD in that this is the only surface-to-air missile that adopts the semi-active laser guidance similar to AGM-114 Hellfire. The gyro stabilized seeker provides very high degree of accuracy and is extremely effective against low altitude cruise missiles. The 15 degrees per second tracking rate of the seeker is relatively low in comparison for other MANPAD for supersonic targets in high g maneuver at very high altitudes, but this is by no means handicapping the performance because such targets are not intended to be for QW-3, which is specifically designed to engage terrain hugging helicopters and UAV's and other fast flying targets at extremely low altitudes, including supersonic sea skimming cruise missiles..
The QW-4 is The newest member of QW series with the fuze similar to that of QW-2, and a new thermal imaging seeker. The new fully electric control surfaces provide smoother flight path curves, thus greatly improved accuracy..
The Anza Mk 2 is INA.
The Anza Mk 3 is INA.
The TD-2000B is To increase the capability of TD-2000, China National Precision Machinery Import and Export Corporation (CNPMIEC) also revealed a development of TD-2000, dubbed as TD-2000B at the same Zhuhai Airshow, where TD-2000B was displayed as part of the subsystem of TD-2000B. The primary improvement over the original system is the extra C4ISR capability added so that in addition to control the QW-4 missiles of TD-2000, TD-2000B can also simultaneously control up to 6 anti-aircraft artillery pieces..

Here is QW-18 Man-Portable Infrared Guided Surface-to-Air Missile information for the QW-18 Chinese Man-Portable Infrared Guided Surface-to-Air Missile of the System:
The Name is QW-18.
The Type is Infrared Imaging Guided Surface-to-Air Missile.
The Manufactured is China Precision Machinery Import-Export Corp. (CPMIEC), Beijing, China
 China Aerospace Science and Industry Corporation (CASIC), Shenyang, China.
The Length is 2.10 m.
The Diameter is 72 mm.
The Launch Tube Weight is 4 kg.
The Firing Unit Weight is 1.7 kg.
The Total System Weight is 18 kg.
The Launch Mode is Shoulder-Fired.
The Mode of Attack is Omi-Direction.
The Guidance System is Infrared Imaging Guidance System.
The Target Speed is 300 m/s.
The Missile Speed is 600 m/s.
The Interception Altitude is 10-4,000 m.
The Self-Destruction Time is 14-18 seconds.
The Shelf Life is 10 Years.

