This document describes the Supercam S350 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The Supercam S350 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) is one of the flagship unmanned aircraft systems designed for aerial photography and video monitoring. The flight duration of up to 4.5 hours with a data transmission range of up to 100 km provides the possibility of using the UAV in surveillance and reconnaissance missions, for protecting state borders, monitoring fuel and energy facilities, and crisis management, as well as for other civil applications. A wide range of payloads can be installed onboard the UAV including a photo camera, video, and thermal imaging equipment, radiation detection equipment, a gas analyzer, and a laser scanning system.

The key features of the unmanned system include the UAV quick assembly, modular composite components, interchangeable and combined payloads with the unified gyro-stabilized gimbals, and the wing panels detachment system to prevent possible damage during landing.

The company adheres to the client-oriented policy that retains multiple low-cost options in the UAV configuration to meet the exceptional needs of our customers.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is System information for the Supercam S350 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is Supercam S350.
The Type is Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is Supercam Unmanned Systems Group.
The Autonomy is automatic or semi-automatic.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Radio Link Range is 70-100 km.
The Video Transmission Range is 50-100 km.
The Payload Options is - 20/24/42/60 MP photo camera with the ability to be mounted on the azimuth stabilized platform
- Gyro-stabilized thermal imaging camera and/or PAL or HD video camera with 10/33х optical zoom, that can be combined together, and optionally enhanced with a laser target marker
- Multispectral camera
- Airborne radiation sensor
- Laser gas analyzer
- Laser scanner.
The Deployment Time is 15 min.
The Launching System is elastic catapult / pneumatic catapult.
The Recovery System is parachute with cords release system.
The Operational Temperature is -40°С to +45°С.
The Accessories is - Automatic target tracking module
- Dual (triple) system, dual-frequency geodetic receiver
- Video link for digital broadband transmission within a range of up to 50-100 km
- Radio link of telemetry and control with the ability of FHSS operation.

Here is Dimensions information for the Supercam S350 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is INA.
The Wingspan is 3.2 m.
The Height is INA.
The Maximum Takeoff Weight is 11.5 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Supercam S350 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Battery.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 120 km/h.
The Cruising Speed is INA.
The Operational Height is 150 - 5000 m.
The Maximum Distance is 240 km.
The Maximum Windspeed is 15 m/s.
The Endurance is 4.5 hours.

