This document describes the SSC-8 (SCREWDRIVER) Russian Long-Range Cruise Missile.

The SSC-8 (SCREWDRIVER) Russian Long-Range Cruise Missile is a Russian ground-launched cruise missile labeled a "missile of concern" by the US after being test-launched from a road-mobile launcher in violation of the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty.  Moscow claims the missile is fully compliant with the INF.
The missile is likely a ground-launched variant of the Russian Navy's 3M-54 Kalibr missile (NATO: SS-N-27 "Sizzler") or another version of the Iskander-K or Kh-101.
It is estimated that the Russians have fielded two battalions of SSC-8s.  Each battalion has four launchers and each launcher has six missiles.  Experts believe that there are less than 100 missiles that have been produced as of Dec 2018.

The missile is likely a ground-launched variant of the Russian Navy’s 3M-54 Kalibr missile (NATO: SS-N-27 Sizzler). It has also been reported as a modified version of the Iskander-K or Kh-101. It was originally designated in U.S. reports as the SSC-X-8, but officials removed the “X” when it transitioned from an experimental to an operational weapon.6 The missile was developed by Russian company NPO Novator.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is Payload information for the SSC-8 (SCREWDRIVER) Russian Long-Range Cruise Missile:
The Missile Name is 9M728 or 9M729.
The Warhead Type is Single Warhead.
The Warhead Options is Conventional and Nuclear.
The Warhead Weight is 400-500KG.
The Maximum Range is 480.
The Conventional Warhead Weight is 500.
The Conventional Warheads Available is HE, Cluster munitions, Fuel-air explosive, Bunker buster.
The MIRV and Yield is No MIRV capability / Low-yield (N/A).
The Nuclear Warhead Yield is This missile was designed to carry a low-yield nuclear warhead. It could have a yield of around 10-50 kT..
The Guidance System is GLONASS satellite navigation system.
The Accuracy is 5.
The Targets is This missile can destroy important enemy targets, such as concentrations of troops and armored vehicles, air defense batteries, supply depots, industrial installations, airfields, command centers and so on..
The Note is Some sources report that the 9M729 potentially might have a range of around 2 000-2 500 km. There are even assessments that this missile could actually have a range of up to 5 500 km. Russian officials have long said they could extend the reach of their Iskander systems with little difficulty..

Here is Propulsion Characteristics information for the SSC-8 (SCREWDRIVER) Russian Long-Range Cruise Missile:
The Engine is 1 stage.
The Propellant is Solid.
The Speed is INA.
The Flight Ceiling is INA.

Here is Fire Control information for the SSC-8 (SCREWDRIVER) Russian Long-Range Cruise Missile:
The Guidance System is GLONASS satellite navigation system, produced by GosNIPP.

