This document describes the Ka-27PS (Helix-D) Russian Search and Rescue Helicopter.

KA-27 Helix A
Ka-27, Kamov 'Helix-A is an improved version of the Ka-25. The fuselage was redesigned to give a large increase in cabin room, with only a small increasse in external dimensions. This allows the Ka-27 to operate from the same ships as the Ka-25. As the 1960s drew to a close, the need arose for a new shipboard anti-submarine warfare helicopter to replace the Soviet Navy's main ASW chopper, the Kamov Ka-25 which was becoming obsolescent. The objective was to greatly increase the payload, internal volume and engine power while still allowing the helicopter to use the same deck helipads and shipboard hangars.

The design bureau led by Nikolay Il'yich Kamov started work on the new ASW helicopter in 1969. Given the size requirements, the engineers logically chose to retain the preceding model's contra-rotating rotor layout - a feature which had been a Kamov "trademark" from the start. Initially designated Ka-252 (though the designation was later changed to Ka-27), the prototype made its first hover on 8th August 1973 and the first free flight on 24th December 1973 [1974?]. After a period of rigorous testing the helicopter officially entered service with the Soviet Navy in 1981.

The KA-27 helicopter is intended to be used for search-rescue provision of aircraft flights over the sea and the land, and also for provision of emergency-rescue operations at the disasters of ships and vessels, at day and night time, in simple and complicated weather conditions at the sea roughness up to 5 number, alone and in combination with ships. To carry out rescue operations, the helicopter is equipped with the winch with lifting capacity 300 kg.

The flight-navigation complex of the helicopter allows to conduct an automatically controlled flight of the helicopter according to the pre-set route, a landing of the helicopter on deck a ship and an unloading of the ship without the stoppage of the latter, an autonomous hovering of the helicopter over the pre-determined point, and together with the radar "Osminog", leading out of the helicopter into the point of the flight pre-set by the pilot.

An inflatable ballonnet system ensures the floatage of the helicopter in case of its emergency landing on the water surface. The blade folding mechanism allows to considerably diminish the overall dimensions of the helicopter at its storage in the hangars of the ships and aerodromes.

The KA-27PS is intended for fulfilling of search and rescue operations and transport transportation at sea and on dry land. High flight-performance data of helicopter and the perfect equipment ensure the fulfillment of the endurance flight above aqueous the surface without reference points and the search for above-water objects at the significant removal from the ship of basing. Onboard radio-electronic complex provides automatic control of helicopter in flight according to route and precise output of helicopter into the calculation point.

The KA-27PS helicopter is equipped with all necessary means of the group and individual rescuing of victims. For lifting the victim onboard the helicopter is established the controlled by hydraulics lifting boom with the electric hoist by load capacity 300 kg. for the transport of large-dimension loads on the helicopter KA-27PS additionally it is established the system of external suspension. Helicopter is equipped with the system of the storing of blades for the arrangement in the deck and bilge hangars. For guaranteeing the buoyancy in the case of emergency landing on the aqueous surface the helicopter is supplied [bystronapolnyaemymi] with air by ballonets. Helicopter is capable to accomplish takeoff and landing on the limited ship area with the tossing + -10

The design turned out to be extremely versatile, and specialised versions began appearing before long. The original Ka-27PL ASW chopper was supplemented by the Ka-27PS search and rescue version, the Ka-28 export variant supplied to friendly nations, the civil Ka-32, the armoured Ka-29 assault helicopter for the Soviet Marines and the Ka-31 airborne early warning version with its unusual rotating radar antenna stowed under the belly when not in use. The civil version found use in such varied roles as long line operations and heli-logging, ice patrol and ship support, firefighting, law enforcement and flying crane operations, with specialised sub-variants appearing accordingly. The considerable capabilities of the Ka-32 quickly earned it recognition in the West, attracting orders from such nations as Canada, Switzerland and South Korea, which were certainly not among the usual buyers of Russian hardware.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China, Russian Federation.

Here is Variants information for the Ka-27PS (Helix-D) Russian Search and Rescue Helicopter:
The Ka-27PL (Helix-A) is baseline anti-submarine warfare helicopter..
The Ka-27PS (Helix-D) is is a search and rescue helicopter..
The Ka-27M is s a recent improved version. It is being tested and evaluated by the Russian Navy. This helicopter has got new radar and some other improvements..
The Ka-28 (Helix-A) is is an export version of the Ka-27PL ordered by China, India, Vietnam and Yugoslavia. This version has a revised avionics suite..
The Ka-29 (Helix-B) is is a naval assault transport helicopter. This helicopter is intended especially for the support of Russian Navy's amphibious operations and featuring a substantially changed airframe. The type entered service in 1985. About 59 of these helicopters were produced. These are in service with Russia and Ukraine..
The Ka-31 is is an airborne early warning helicopter, based on the basic Ka-29. Its main mission is a long-range detection of airborne and naval threats..
The Ka-32 (Helix-C) is is a simplified civilian version. It is used in Russia and has been exported to a number of countries. It is even used by some Western countries..
The Ka-32K is is a civilian flying crane..
The Ka-32S is is a specialized version, designed to operate from icebreakers. It can be used for ice patrolling, search and rescue, oil rig support, and other tasks. This version is fitted with a radar..
The Ka-32T is is a civilian transport helicopter. It lacks radar and has simplified avionics. It can carry passengers or freight. It has a payload capacity of 4 000 kg internally or 5 000 kg externally..

Here is System information for the Ka-27PS (Helix-D) Russian Search and Rescue Helicopter:
The Alternative Designation is Ka-27PS (Helix-D) Russian Search and Rescue Helicopter.
The Primary Function is Russian Search and Rescue Helicopter.
The Manufacturer is Kamov.
The In Service is 1986-Present.
The Crew is 2 (pilot, navigator) + 1-3 sensor operators.
The Passenger is The main cabin holds ASW gear or up to 16 passengers.
The Blades, Main Rotor is 6.
The Blades, Tail Rotor is No Rail Rotor.
The Number of Engines is 2.
The Day/Night Capable is Yes, due to the Automatic Flight Control System.
The Takeoff or Landing Limitations is INA.
The All Weather Capable is Yes, due to the Automatic Flight Control System.
The Number of Hard Points is INA.
The Stabilizer is horizontal stabilizer (with elevators) fitted with endplate fins and full-height rudders.
The Auto-hovering is Yes.
The Automatic Flight Control System is Yes.
The Landing Gear is Fixed, quadricycle landing gear.
The Note #1 is One fully articulated, three-blade assembly is carried close to the roof, rotating counter-clockwise when seen from above. The other three-blade hub is fitted to the upper end of the mast and rotates clockwise. Each assembly has its own pitch change mechanism and each has folding blades. The blades are of all-composite construction and the main rotor hub is made of titanium and steel..
The Note #2 is Ka-27PS (Helix-D) Search and rescue helicopter, ASW equipment removed and winch fitted..

Here is Dimensions information for the Ka-27PS (Helix-D) Russian Search and Rescue Helicopter:
The Length is 11.30.
The Width is 5.65.
The Height is 5.40.
The Main Rotor Diameter is 15.90.
The Weight, Empty is 6,400.
The Weight, Normal Takeoff is 10,700.
The Weight, Maximum Takeoff is 11,000.
The Weight, Internal Payload is 4,000.
The Cabin Length is 4.52.
The Cabin Width is 1.30.
The Cabin Height is 1.32.
The Disc Area is 199 m sq.

Here is Automotive information for the Ka-27PS (Helix-D) Russian Search and Rescue Helicopter:
The Engine Name is 2 x Isotov TV3-117KM turboshaft.
The Engine Power is 2,200 shaft hp each.
The Cruising Range is 800.
The Speed, Maximum is 250.
The Speed, Cruise is 230.
The Internal Fuel Capacity is 4,720 liters.
The Ceiling is 6,000.
The Hovering Ceiling is 3,500.

Here is Communications information for the Ka-27PS (Helix-D) Russian Search and Rescue Helicopter:
The Radio is Various depending on country and mission.

Here is Wing Mounted Weapons information for the Ka-27PS (Helix-D) Russian Search and Rescue Helicopter:
The Note is Ka-27PS (Helix-D) Search and rescue helicopter, ASW equipment removed and winch fitted..

Here is Fire Control and Avionics information for the Ka-27PS (Helix-D) Russian Search and Rescue Helicopter:
The Fire Control System Type is INA.
The Fire Control Radar is INA.
The Digital or Analog Cockpit is INA.
The Direct Fire Control is INA.
The Laser Designator is INA.
The Position Location System is Yes.
The Navigation System is NKV-252 navigation system.
The Gyroscope is MGV-1V gyroscopic system.
The Radio Compass is A-031 radio compass.
The Flight System is PKV-252 flight system.

Here is Protection information for the Ka-27PS (Helix-D) Russian Search and Rescue Helicopter:
The Fuselage is The fuselage resembles that of the Hormone and has a similar semi-monocoque pod and boom type that has been stretched approximately 5 ft (1.5 m)..
The Cockpit Glass is unstepped windshield.
The Stealth Properties is No.
The Heat Signature Reduction is INA.
The Add on Armor is INA.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The EW is INA.
The EW Counter Measures/CCM is INA.
The Counter Measures (Chaff/Flares) is INA.

