This document describes the Climbing Reconnaissance Robot Chinese Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).

The Climbing Reconnaissance Robot Chinese Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) was developed to carry out anti-terrorism reconnaissance and high-altitude missions.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is System information for the Climbing Reconnaissance Robot Chinese Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Alternative Designation is Climbing Reconnaissance Robot.
The Type is Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).
The Manufacturer is China Xinshidai Company (CXC).
The Configuration is Tracked.
The Mission is The Climbing Reconnaissance Robot Chinese Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) was developed to carry out anti-terrorism reconnaissance and high-altitude missions..
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Control is The Climbing Reconnaissance Robot can be controlled by a portable operator control unit (OCU). The camera records video and imagery that is sent back wirelessly to the operator/command center..
The Payload Capacity is 5 kg.

Here is Dimensions information for the Climbing Reconnaissance Robot Chinese Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Weight is 5 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Climbing Reconnaissance Robot Chinese Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Electric.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Range is 100 m (wireless).
The Maximum Speed is >0.6 km/h.
The Endurance, Tiled Surface is 80 min.
The Endurance, Whitewash Surface is 100 min.

Here is Communications information for the Climbing Reconnaissance Robot Chinese Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Note is The platform provides real-time monitoring and can be operated at distances of up to 100 m..

Here is Manipulator Arm information for the Climbing Reconnaissance Robot Chinese Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Note is A manipulator arm can be fitted to the unit..

Here is Protection information for the Climbing Reconnaissance Robot Chinese Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is INA.

