This document describes the Telemax RECCE German Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).

Telemax RECCE
Fast solution for reconnaissance:
Agile and smart!
Compact and high performance reconnaissance system without a manipulator provides detailed information from the site, especially when equipped with our autonomy/3D mapping accessory.

Features:
*Rugged four-wheel drive, also available with independent tracks
**Top speed of more than 10 km/h (6.2 mph)
*Up to 8 hours of operation without recharging
*Compact dimensions
*Payload area for additional modules and an ideal platform for ROS based mapping and autonomy software
*Interchangeability of accessories within the telemax family, e.g. cameras and batteries.

Benefits:
*Flexible adjustment of the system for specific tasks and different ambient conditions
*Rapid reconnaissance
*Gathering information from a safe distance in complex and time-consuming missions
*Maximum mobility and easily transported
*Simple integration of additional accessories such as autonomy and reconnaissance tools, e.g. automatically generate a 3D map while navigating through an environment
*Excels in a wide variety of applications

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Germany.

Here is Variants information for the Telemax RECCE German Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Telemax 4x4 is elemax with wheels:
Versatile and cost-efficient!
The starter version with a broad wheelbase and 4-wheel drive for rapid deployments on challenging terrains and delicate flooring requiring protection..
The Telemax PRO is The original telemax:
Compact design and high reach!
A truly versatile robot capable of handling significant gradients and obstacles, it boasts an impressive manipulator reach, both vertically and horizontally, combined with minimal dimensions. Perfect for deployments in built-up areas and confined spaces..
The Telemax HYBRID is The best of both worlds – Compact and strong!
The combination of a powerful arm and compact dimensions for the toughest challenges..
The Telemax PLUS is The biggest and strongest telemax:
Versatile and strong!
Our largest and strongest telemax, its exceptional ability to handle gradients and terrains makes it ideal for a particularly broad range of applications..
The Telemax RECCE is Fast solution for reconnaissance:
Agile and smart!
Compact and high performance reconnaissance system without a manipulator provides detailed information from the site, especially when equipped with our autonomy/3D mapping accessory..

Here is System information for the Telemax RECCE German Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Alternative Designation is Telemax RECCE.
The Type is Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).
The Manufacturer is Faulhaber.
The Crew is 1.
The Universal Interface is 1.
The Payload Capacity is 60 kg.

Here is Dimensions information for the Telemax RECCE German Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Length is 1020 mm.
The Width is 605 mm.
The Height is 815 mm.
The Weight is 51 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Telemax RECCE German Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Rugged four-wheel drive, also available with independent
tracks.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Drive is 4 wheels.
The Maximum Speed is 10 km/h.
The Operational Range is INA.
The Turning Circle is 1200 mm.
The Mobility, Slopes is 38° (depending on surface).
The Mobility, Stairs is 17.5°.
The Mobility, Obstacle Height is 200 mm.
The Mobility, Gap Width is 330 mm.
The Fording depth is 280 mm.
The Endurance is Up to 8 h.

Here is Protection information for the Telemax RECCE German Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is INA.

