This document describes the G-Wagen German 4x4 Interim Fast Attack Vehicles (IFAV).

The Mercedes-Benz G-Wagen is a light utility vehicle used by military and security forces primarily to conduct reconnaissance, patrols and transport small groups of soldiers. The vehicles were designed primarily for military use, and can conduct peacekeeping, emergency response, rescue, VIP transport and border patrol missions.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Australia, Austria, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Luxembourg, Netherlands, North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Norway, Poland, Russian Federation, Serbia, Singapore, Switzerland, United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the G-Wagen German 4x4 Interim Fast Attack Vehicles (IFAV):
The Wolf LIV is This is a multi-purpose transport variant designed by Rheinmetall. It can carry up to 10 troops (including vehicle crew) and is fitted with a gun mount..
The Wolf LIV (SO) is The Wolf light infantry vehicle for special operations -- LIV(SO) -- is a variant of the G-Wagen designed by Rheinmetall..
The G-Wagen 6 x 6 (280 CDI) is This variant was developed to compete for the Australian Overlander program, aimed at replacing Canberra's Land Rover 4 x 4 and Perentie 6 x 6 vehicles..

Here is System information for the G-Wagen German 4x4 Interim Fast Attack Vehicles (IFAV):
The Alternative Designation is G-Wagen.
The Type is Interim Fast Attack Vehicles (IFAV).
The Configuration is 4x4.
The Manufacturer is Mercedes-Benz, Stuttgart, Germany.
The Crew is 1.
The Passenger Capacity is 5.
The Payload Capacity is 1,430 kg.

Here is Dimensions information for the G-Wagen German 4x4 Interim Fast Attack Vehicles (IFAV):
The Length is 4.39 m.
The Width is 1.66 m.
The Height is 1.87 m.
The Wheelbase is 2.85 m.
The Empty Weight is 2,345 kg.
The Combat Weight is 3,674 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the G-Wagen German 4x4 Interim Fast Attack Vehicles (IFAV):
The Engine Name is 1 x 270 CDI Mercedes-Benz.
The Engine Type is Turbocharged diesel.
The Engine Power is 156 hp at 3,800 rpm.
The Fuel Capacity is 96 liters.
The Transmission is 5-speed automatic gear box with manual Tiptronic-shifting option.
The Suspension is McPhersen hydropneumatic adjustable, manual and automatic adjustments.
The Maximum Road Speed is 156 km/h.
The Range is 857 km.
The Fording is 0.6 m.
The Gradient is 80%.
The Side Slope is 70%.
The Turning Radius is 13 m.

Here is Main Weapon System information for the G-Wagen German 4x4 Interim Fast Attack Vehicles (IFAV):
The Note is The G-Wagen can armed with a variety of weapons that include: 1 x Mk 19 40-mm grenade launcher; 1 x M2 .50-cal machine gun; 1 x TOW anti-tank missile; or 1x M240G machine gun.

Here is Protection information for the G-Wagen German 4x4 Interim Fast Attack Vehicles (IFAV):
The Armor is Shrapnel-proof flooring tested with DM 51 grenade.
The Applique Armor is Available.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

