This document describes the Tor M2DT Russian Amphibious Short-Range Air Defense Missile System.

The system is especially designed to be used for Arctic region at temperatures up to -50 degrees C based on the chassis of the DT-30PM tracked all-terrain vehicle and is capable of detecting over 40 air targets, especially high-precision weapons, and to track and engage up to four of them simultaneously at a range of up to 12 km and altitudes up to 10 km with its 16 missiles even on the move. Its creation was completed in 2018 and the first delivery of 12 systems was held in November of the same year.

The Tor-M2DT is an Arctic version of the Tor-M2 (NATO reporting name: SA-15 Gauntlet) system. It is designed to provide air and ballistic missile defense at the battalion level. The Tor-M2DT covers strategic administrative facilities, the first echelons of land formations from strikes by anti-radar and cruise missiles, glide bombs, planes, helicopters and unmanned aerial vehicles. It can operate in manual and automatic modes. The Tor system monitors the airspace and downs independently all the aerial targets unrecognized by the identification friend-or-foe device.

The Tor-M2DT has been developed on the basis of a two-section prime mover to operate in the harsh conditions of the Arctic and the Extreme North and at a temperature of -50°C. It is based on the DT-30 tracked chassis to be able to float and move in cross-country terrain.

The Tor-M2DT comprises 16 vertically-launched air defense missiles with a target engagement range of up to 12 kilometers (7 miles) and an altitude range of up to 10,000 meters. The upgraded target acquisition station is capable of detecting stealth aerial targets.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is Variants information for the Tor M2DT Russian Amphibious Short-Range Air Defense Missile System:
The 9K330 Tor is he project was given strict design specifications to meet; Tor had to provide extended detection and tracking of fast, low radar cross section targets and be capable of quickly and efficiently dealing with massed air raids, whilst providing a high degree of automation and integration with other air defence assets. In order to meet these demanding specifications, the designers used a variety of new technologies, including advanced Passive electronically scanned array radar for improved detection and tracking performance, enhanced digital information processing, and vertically launched missiles to improve reaction time and increase the number of readily available munitions. After a period of testing and evaluation between December 1983 and December 1984, the land based system was accepted into service on 19 March 1986..
The 9K331 Tor-M1 is "Tor-M1", introduced in 1991 with the 9M331 missile, with greatly improved missile accuracy[4] and the ability to engage two targets simultaneously, minimum range 1.5 km (0.93 mi), minimum height 10 m.

Even while the Tor was being introduced into service, work started on improving the system, resulting in an enhanced version, the Tor-M1. Many improvements over the original system were made; these included the addition of a second fire control channel, allowing two targets to be engaged at once; as well as upgrades to the optical tracking system and computer equipment. ECM protection and warhead design were also modified, as was the ammunition handling system. State tests, conducted between March and December 1989, showed that the result was a system which could engage more targets in a shorter time frame with reaction times reduced by over a second and an increased probability of target destruction.[2] Further modifications occurred partly as a response of insight gained from the 1995 NATO bombing in Bosnia and Herzegovina resulting in the Tor-M1-1, or Tor-M1V, which offered improved network connectivity and ECM functions as well as protection against countermeasures..
The 9K332 Tor-M2E is Upgrades have continued over the lifetime of the system, with developer Almaz Antey unveiling the newest incarnation of the Tor missile system, the Tor-M2E, at the MAKS Airshow in 2007..
The Tor-M1-2U is Tor-M1-2U" entered service at the end of 2012. This system is designed to destroy aircraft, helicopters, UAVs, missiles, and other precision guided weapons, flying at medium, low and very low altitudes in all weather. The system is able to engage four targets simultaneously at a height of up to 10 kilometers. Its crew consists of three people.  Deliveries are underway. It can hit targets on the move, at a speed of up to 25 km/h (includes all the necessary functions for independent fight)..
The 3K95 Kinzhal (Naval Variant) is The 3K95 "Kinzhal" (Russian: Кинжал – dagger) is the naval version of the Tor missile system developed by Altair and has the NATO reporting name SA-N-9 Gauntlet. Using the same 9M330 missile as the land based version, the system can be mounted on vessels displacing over 800 tonnes and is known to be installed on Admiral Kuznetsov class aircraft carriers, Kirov class multimission cruisers, Udaloy class anti-submarine destroyers and Neustrashimy class frigates. The naval version of the later Tor-M1 is known as the "Yozh" (Russian: Ёж – hedgehog), while the export version of the Kinzhal is known as "Klinok".
The Tor-M2KM is The Tor-M2KM is a self-contained fighting module version of the system that can be mounted in various locations. In October 2016, it was loaded onto the helipad of the Admiral Grigorovich frigate by means of an ordinary wharf crane and fixed in position with steel chains to fire at simulated cruise missiles while the ship was underway. This could give advanced SAM capabilities to vessels without the capacity to install the larger and heavier Kinzhal system; it can also be mounted on a truck, building roof, or any horizontal surface at least 2.5 m wide and 7.1 m long. The module weighs 15 tons and contains all equipment needed to operate without any external support. It can go from standby to full alert in 3 minutes and acquire 144 air targets while simultaneously tracking the 20 most dangerous ones marked for priority by the two-man crew. The Tor-M2 km missiles have a range of 15 km..
The Tor-M2DT is The system is especially designed to be used for Arctic region at temperatures up to -50 degrees C based on the chassis of the DT-30PM tracked all-terrain vehicle and is capable of detecting over 40 air targets, especially high-precision weapons, and to track and engage up to four of them simultaneously at a range of up to 12 km and altitudes up to 10 km with its 16 missiles even on the move. Its creation was completed in 2018 and the first delivery of 12 systems was held in November of the same year..
The Tor-2E is JSC Rosoboronexport, part of the Rostec State Corporation, has started promoting the newest Tor-E2 SAM system developed and produced by the Almaz-Antey Air and Space Defence Concern in 2018. Tor-E2 combat vehicle is an independent, mobile, all-terrain fighting unit that provides detection and identification of air targets on the march and at the halt, target lock-on and engagement at the halt, from a short stop and on the move. A battery of the four-channel Tor-E2 SAM systems, consisting of four combat vehicles, can simultaneously engage up to 16 targets flying from any direction at a range of at least 15 km and an altitude of up to 12 km. Each vehicle carries 16 missiles, twice as many as the previous version of the Tor system. In addition, the two Tor-E2 combat vehicles can operate in the "link" mode, which enables them to exchange information about the air situation at different altitude ranges and coordinate joint engagement operations. In this mode, one of the combat vehicles, acting from an ambush, receives information from the other one and does not reveal itself until the launch of the missile. A command post can be attached to a battery of four Tor-E2 combat vehicles to control and coordinate the Tor combat vehicles and interact with the customer's air defense control system..
The HQ-17 (China Variant) is The HQ-17 (Hongqi-17) is China's reported variant of the Tor-M1 system.

In 1996, China ordered 14 Tor-M1 missile systems from Russia which were delivered under contract in 1997. In 1999, another contract for 13 Tor-M1 systems was signed between Russia and China. Delivery of the systems took place in 2000..
The FM-2000 is FM-2000 is a mobile short-range air-defence (SHORAD) system unveiled by China Aerospace Science and Industry Corporation at the 2018 Zhuhai Airshow and in service as of 2019. Its range is 15 km and engagement altitude is 10 km. It is carried on a 3 axle TEL. It is a version of the HQ-17..

Here is System information for the Tor M2DT Russian Amphibious Short-Range Air Defense Missile System:
The Alternative Designation is Tor M2DT.
The Type is Short-Range Air Defense Missile System.
The Family is Tor Missile System.
The Manufacturer is Russia.
The In Service is 2018-Preseent.
The Crew is 3.
The Chassis is DT-30PM tracked carrier.
The Displacement Time is INA.
The Emplacement Time is INA.
The Fire on the Move is Yes.
The Note is The DT-30PM tracked carrier was specially designed to operate over difficult terrain where there are no roads. It has articulated configuration the with two sections. The front section of the Tor M2DT has a fully enclosed forward control cab for the driver and operators. It also accommodates the engine. The rear unit carries missile launchers and radars..

Here is Dimensions information for the Tor M2DT Russian Amphibious Short-Range Air Defense Missile System:
The Length is 16.3.
The Width is 3.1.
The Height, in Traveling Order is 4.5.
The Weight, Combat is 40-45 tons.
The Ground Pressure is INA.

Here is Automotive information for the Tor M2DT Russian Amphibious Short-Range Air Defense Missile System:
The Engine Name is YaMZ-847-10 Diesel.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 800.
The Maximum Range is 700.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 45.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is 5.
The Gradient is 60.
The Side Slope is 30.
The Vertical Step is 1.5.
The Trench is up to 4.5 m.
The Fording Depth is Amphibious.

Here is Missile System information for the Tor M2DT Russian Amphibious Short-Range Air Defense Missile System:
The Name is 9M338 missiles.
The Type is Short-Range Air Defense Missile.
The Launcher is The 9M338K is a designation of the missile in its launch container..
The Missile Length, with Container is 2.94.
The Missile Diameter, with Container is 0.24.
The Fin Span is INA.
The Basic Load is 16.
The Missile Weight is 163.
The Warhead Type is HE-FRAG.
The Warhead Weight is INA.
The Range of Fire is 16.
The Altitude of Fire is 10.
The Reload Time is Reloading vehicle of the Tor M2DT is fitted with a crane and carries reload missiles. It is also based on the same DT-30PM articulated all-terrain tracked carrier chassis. It takes around 30 to 45 minutes to reload a full set of 16 missiles..
The Note is This system can engage all kinds of modern air targets. It can be used against aircraft, helicopters, UAVs, various missiles and precision guided munitions. It destroys targets that long- and medium-range air defense systems fail to hit..

Here is Fire Control System information for the Tor M2DT Russian Amphibious Short-Range Air Defense Missile System of the Fire Control:
The Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is Yes.
The Direct Fire is Yes.
The Indirect Fire is Yes.
The Targets is The Tor M2DT can engage multiple targets simultaneously. It is claimed that this air defense system can deflect massive enemy air raids, when enemy extensively uses electronic countermeasures..
The Note is The Tor M2DT can engage multiple targets simultaneously. It is claimed that this air defense system can deflect massive enemy air raids, when enemy extensively uses electronic countermeasures..

Here is Radar information for the Tor M2DT Russian Amphibious Short-Range Air Defense Missile System of the Fire Control:
The Name is INA.
The Type is INA.
The Function is INA.
The Frequency/Band is INA.
The Range is INA.
The Number of Targets System can Track is The Tor M2DT can engage multiple targets simultaneously.

Here is Protection information for the Tor M2DT Russian Amphibious Short-Range Air Defense Missile System:
The Hull Armor is The Tor M2DT is unarmored and carries no defensive weapons other than its air defense missiles..
The Applique Armor is No.
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is No.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is No.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is No.

