This document describes the Bronco 3 Singaporean Amphibious Tracked Articulated Multipurpose Vehicle.

The Bronco 3 Singaporean Tracked Articulated Multipurpose Vehicle is a tracked articulated multipurpose vehicle designed and manufactured by Singapore Technologies Engineering (ST Engineering) in Singapore. It is designed to provide a user with a baseline vehicle that can cross the majority of terrains encountered while providing protection that is sufficient for modern conflict.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Singapore, Thailand.

Here is Variants information for the Bronco 3 Singaporean Amphibious Tracked Articulated Multipurpose Vehicle:
The Bronco is The Bronco is an articulated tracked AFV designed to provide users with mobility across extreme terrain and if required a platform family that can be used to support all of a formation's needs..

Here is System information for the Bronco 3 Singaporean Amphibious Tracked Articulated Multipurpose Vehicle:
The Alternative Designation is Bronco 3.
The Type is Tracked Articulated Multipurpose Vehicle.
The Manufacturer is Singapore Technologies Engineering (ST Engineering).
The Configuration is Tracked.
The Crew is 4.
The Passenger Capacity is 8.
The Payload Capacity is 6,300 kg.
The Operating Temperature is -73°C to 80°C.

Here is Dimensions information for the Bronco 3 Singaporean Amphibious Tracked Articulated Multipurpose Vehicle:
The Length is 8.6 m.
The Width is 2.26 m.
The Height is 2.3 m.
The Track Width is 600 mm.
The Weight, Standard is 10,200 kg.
The Weight, Combat is 16,500 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Bronco 3 Singaporean Amphibious Tracked Articulated Multipurpose Vehicle:
The Engine Name is MTU.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 325 hp at 2,200 rpm.
The Power-to-Weight Ratio is 19.69 hp/t.
The Fuel Capacity is The vehicle has two fuel tanks; one under the rear module that doubles as protection and a smaller one under the front module. The front fuel tank contains 40 litres of fuel and is continuously supplied by two 200-litre fuel tanks installed under the rear module..
The Electrical System is 24 V.
The Batteries is 4 × 12 V.
The Alternator is 450 A.
The Range is 400.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 65 km/h.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is 4 km/h.
The Gradient is 60%.
The Side Slope is 30%.
The Turning Radius is 8 m.
The Steering is hydrostatic, articulated, damped.
The Suspension is rubber brushed.

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Bronco 3 Singaporean Amphibious Tracked Articulated Multipurpose Vehicle:
The Note #1 is The standard armament presented on the Bronco 3 is the Adder ROWS installed on the front module. The ROWS can armed with a 12.7 mm heavy MG, a 7.62 mm general-purpose MG, or 40 mm AGL with coaxial 7.62 mm MG..
The Note #2 is When equipped with a fire support rear module, the Bronco 3 carries a 120 mm Super Rapid Advanced Mortar System (SRAMS), which can fire up to 10 rds/min and is fitted with a semi-automatic loader..

Here is Fire Control System information for the Bronco 3 Singaporean Amphibious Tracked Articulated Multipurpose Vehicle:
The FCS Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is Yes, if the Bronco 3 is equipment with the 120 mm Super Rapid Advanced Mortar System (SRAMS)..

Here is Protection information for the Bronco 3 Singaporean Amphibious Tracked Articulated Multipurpose Vehicle:
The Armor is The Bronco 3 has a V-shaped hull and high ground clearance to increase its protection from the effects of a mine blast. Both modules are built from welded and bent steel armor that can be upgraded with additional passive armors to provide protection up to NATO STANAG 4569 Level 4..
The Applique Armor is Available.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is No.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

