This document describes the BREM-D Russian Armored Maintenance-Recovery Vehicle.

The BREM-D is a late Cold War-era armored recovery vehicle of Soviet origin. It was developed in the early 1980s to support BMD-1 and BTR-D combat vehicles for airborne troops in the field. The BREM-D is based on the BTR-D and can be airdropped from cargo aircraft. It features a light crane, winch with earth anchor, and spare parts and equipment to carry out maintenance in the field. A limited number of these vehicles were produced.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: CFE Treaty, Russian Federation, Ukraine.

Here is Variants information for the BREM-D Russian Armored Maintenance-Recovery Vehicle:
The BTR-DG (Ob'yekt 925G) is Cargo variant without bow machine guns, firing ports and periscopes. The troop compartment was modified to serve as a cargo compartment..
The BTR-DG is converted into an airborne SPAAG fitted with a specially built three-legged ZU-23-2 twin anti-aircraft autocannon mount over the roof of the cargo compartment..
The BTR-D San is BTR-D converted into an airborne armoured ambulance..
The BREM-D is (BREM-D stands for bronirovannaya remonto-evakuatsionnaya mashina desanta – armoured maintenance-recovery vehicle of the airborne) (Ob'yekt 932) – BTR-D converted into an airborne ARV. It carries specialized equipment for the repair and recovery of BMD-1 type vehicles. This equipment includes a light collapsible crane stored on the roof of the personnel compartment, which can be traversed through 180°, a recovery winch, a combination spade and dozer blade, a generator, towing equipment, electric welding system, tools and ready use spares. One of the 7.62 mm bow PKT tank machine guns was eliminated. This entered service in 1989 in very small numbers.
The BTR-RD "Robot" is BTR-D converted into an airborne ATGM team carrier with two 9P135M-1 ATGM launchers capable of firing 9M113 "Konkurs" (AT-5 Spandrel), 9M113M "Konkurs-M" (AT-5B Spandrel B), 9M111 "Fagot" (AT-4 Spigot) and 9M111-2 "Fagot" (AT-4B Spigot B) ATGMs. They can be used by the dismounted ATGM squad or fitted on a pintle mount on the right side of the hull. This is basically a BTR-D with a pintle mount added and with missile racks inside the troop compartment.
The BTR-ZD "Skrezhet" is (ZD stands for zenitnaya ustanovka) – BTR-D converted into an airborne air defense vehicle for carrying two MANPAD teams. The vehicle is fitted with racks for spare MANPAD missiles. It also is fitted with external stowage rails for a MANPAD on the right hand side of the roof of the troop compartment. It can also carry a complete ZU-23-2 twin anti-aircraft autocannon mount on the roof of the troop compartment..
The NPDU "Sterkh" is (NPDU stands for nazemnyj punkt distantsionnogo upravleniya) – BTR-D converted into an airborne unmanned aerial vehicle carrier and launch vehicle of the "Stroy-P" set. It is used to launch Yak-061 "Pchela-1T" UAV for reconnaissance or jamming at ranges up to 60 km. The single-rail launcher is mounted on left hand side of the roof of the hull. It has large three-piece tube on forward right hand side of the roof of the hull. It entered service in 1990.
The BMD-1KSh "Soroka" (Ob'yekt 926) is (KSh stands for komandno-shtabnaya – command and staff) – airborne command post equipped with the R-123M, R-111 and R-130M or R-134 radio sets, as well as an AB1 portable 1 kW generator, the TNA-3 navigation system, folding CLOTHES HORSE type antennae around the superstructure and two slim antenna masts. Bow mounted machine guns and firing ports were removed. The commander's hatch is offset to the left and does not project forward. It's sometimes called BMD-KSh or KShM-D.
The BMD-1R "Sinitsa" is (R stands for radiostantsiya – signals vehicle) – Division-level command and signals vehicle equipped with R-161A2M radio set, one heavy telescopic antenna mast stowed along the left hand side of the roof of the hull and one slim elevatable antenna mast on the rear right hand side of the roof of the personnel compartment. Only a small number was delivered..
The R-440-ODB "Kristall-BDS" is BTR-D converted into an airborne satellite communications vehicle with R-440 system with a range of 15,000 km. The vehicle has a roof-mounted satellite dish AK-12 that is covered with a cage-like structure during transport..
The R-440-ODB "Kristall-BDS" is BTR-D converted into an airborne satellite communications vehicle with R-440 system with a range of 15,000 km. The vehicle has a roof-mounted satellite dish AK-12 that is covered with a cage-like structure during transport..
The 1V119 "Reostat" is BTR-D converted into an airborne artillery battalion fire direction vehicle. The vehicle is fitted with a turret equipped with NNP-21 and V-7 observation devices, three R-173 and R-159 radiosets, PAB-2AM aiming circle, three antennae mounts, DSP-30 and DAK-2 rangefinders. The turret was also equipped with PSNR-5K (1RL-133-1) "Tall Mike" ground surveillance radar mounted on the roof of the turret. Located over the turret front sights were the visors hinged in the center.
The 2S9 Nona-S (Ob'yekt 925S) – is Airborne self-propelled mortar, armed with a 120 mm 2A60 mortar. Entered service 1981..

Here is System information for the BREM-D Russian Armored Maintenance-Recovery Vehicle:
The Alternative Designation is BREM-D.
The Type is Armored Maintenance-Recovery Vehicle.
The Manufacturer is Volgograd Tractor Factory.
The Family is BTR.
The In Service is 1989-Present.
The Crew is 1.
The Passenger Capacity is 12.
The Note is This equipment includes a light collapsible crane stored on the roof of the personnel compartment, which can be traversed through 180°, a recovery winch, a combination spade and dozer blade, a generator, towing equipment, electric welding system, tools and ready use spares..

Here is Dimensions information for the BREM-D Russian Armored Maintenance-Recovery Vehicle:
The Length is 5.88.
The Width is 2.63.
The Height is 2.
The Weight, Combat is 8.
The Ground Pressure is INA.

Here is Automotive information for the BREM-D Russian Armored Maintenance-Recovery Vehicle:
The Engine Name is 5D20 V6 Diesel.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 240.
The Cruising Range is 500.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 62.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is 10.
The Gradient is 60%.
The Side Slope is 30%.
The Vertical Step is 0.7.
The Trench is 2.0.
The Fording Depth is Amphibious.
The Note is The BTR-D is amphibious and is propelled on water by two waterjets.

Here is System information for the BREM-D Russian Armored Maintenance-Recovery Vehicle of the Main Weapon System:
The Name is 1 x PKT (Kalashnikov's Machine Gun).
The Caliber is 7.62mm.
The Type is General-Purpose Machine Gun.
The Function is In use as a front-line infantry and vehicle-mounted weapon with Russia's armed forces..
The Manufacturer is Degtyaryov plant.
The In Service is 1961-Present.
The Proliferation is +1 Million.
The Length is 1,203.
The Barrel Length is 605.
The Weight, Gun Only is 9.
The Weight, Tripod Only is 7.7.
The Max Rate of Fire is 650 rds/min.
The Effective Rate of Fire is 250-300 rds/min.
The Action is Gas-operated, open bolt.
The Feed System is Non-disintegrating metal 50 round belts in 100 and 200/250 round ammunition boxes.
The Sights is Iron Sights.

Here is Ammunition information for the BREM-D Russian Armored Maintenance-Recovery Vehicle of the Main Weapon System:
The Type is Rifle.
The Caliber is 7.62.
The Cartridge is 7.62×54mmR km.
The Muzzle Velocity is 855.
The Accuracy of fire at 300 m is 90.
The Basic Load is 2,000.

Here is Fire Control information for the BREM-D Russian Armored Maintenance-Recovery Vehicle:
The Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is No.
The Thermal Sight Vehicle Commander is Yes.
The Thermal Sight Gunner is Yes.
The Main Gun Stabilization is INA.

Here is Protection information for the BREM-D Russian Armored Maintenance-Recovery Vehicle:
The Hull Armor is Protection of this vehicle is very light. Hull of the BTR-D is welded from aluminum armor in attempt to save weight, however it protects the occupants only from small arms fire and artillery shell splinter.
The Turret Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is Available.
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is No.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is No.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.
The IR Signature is INA.
The Firing Ports is All-round firing ports.

