This document describes the Hawkei PMV Australian 4x4 Protected Mobility Vehicle.

The Hawkei PMV is a light Four-wheel drive protected mobility vehicle originally designed to meet an Australian Defence Force (ADF) requirement for a light armored patrol vehicle to replace some of its Land Rover Perentie variants. The Hawkei is a highly mobile, highly protected, 7-tonne vehicle, with in-built systems to allow it to be used as a fighting platform. It has been developed with Vehicle Electronic Architecture to be mission system ready. Prime contractors include Thales Australia, Boeing Australia, Plasan (Israel), and PAC Group. In October 2015, the Australian Government announced the purchase of 1,100 Hawkes from Thales Australia.

As part of a wider project to replace the ADF's fleet of operational support vehicles, Project Land 121 Phase 4 – Protected Mobility Vehicle (Light) or PMV-L, is a requirement for up to 1,300 specialized light armored vehicles to replace some of the in-service Land Rovers. Key criteria for the project included: off-road mobility, integrated vehicle electronic architecture, substantial payloads, high levels of protection against land mines, improvised explosive devices, and ballistic weapons while being light enough to be air transported by military helicopters. The three options considered as part of the project were:

Option 1, Joint Light Tactical Vehicle (JLTV) Program - align the PMV-L requirement to the United States JLTV program to replace its fleet of High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicle or 'Humvee' (awarded 25 August 2015 to Oshkosh offering L-ATV);
Option 2, Manufactured and Supported in Australia (MSA); and
Option 3, Market available – pursuit of this option is subject to Australian Government decisions on Options 1 and 2.

Competitors for the MSA option included the combat-proven MOWAG Eagle IV from General Dynamics Land Systems; the British military then selected Ocelot from Force Protection; and the Hawkei offering from Thales Australia. The JTLV option included entries from BAE Systems/Navistar, AM General/General Dynamics, and Lockheed Martin.

In December 2011 the Australian Department of Defence announced Hawkei as the preferred vehicle for further development and testing under the MSA option.

In October 2015, Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull and Minister for Defence Marise Payne announced the purchase of 1,100 Hawkeis and 1,000 trailers at a cost of $1.3 billion.

In November 2017 it was reported that the Hawkei was being considered by Poland as part of a modernization of the country's military. This could result in an initial purchase of 50 vehicles, and as many as 700 over the long term.

In September 2018 the Australian National Audit Office released a report which criticized aspects of the Hawkei project. The report judged that Australia should have remained in the JLTV program to provide competition for the Hawkei procurement and that the Department of Defence had not kept ministers fully informed about the Hawkei program. This included not providing ministers with a study that found that there were few benefits from building the vehicles in Australia. The ANAO was unable to publish some elements of the audit after Attorney-General Christian Porter ruled that publishing it would compromise national security. Thales had taken legal action earlier in the year seeking to have material removed from the report.

As of December 2018, the Hawkei is facing reliability issues following a demonstration test conducted on 19 November 2018, delaying full-rate production.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Australia.

Here is Variants information for the Hawkei PMV Australian 4x4 Protected Mobility Vehicle:
The Command is Dual cab manned by a crew of four to six, weapons system options including up to 12.7mm guns or 40mm grenade systems in various mounts with a remote operated option..
The Border Protection is Dual cab manned by a crew of four to six, various equipment options including force protection radar, surveillance and communications systems..
The Special Operations Vehicle is Dual cab manned by a crew of four to six with up to three weapon systems.

Front co-driver swing mount;
Roof mounted manual gunring or remote weapon station; and/or
Rear-facing swing mount..
The Utility is Single-extended cab with a flat-bed cargo area measuring; L: 2,000 mm (79 in) x W: 2,400 mm (94 in). The vehicle is manned by a crew of 2-3 and has a kerb weight of 6,800 kg (14,991 lb) with a rated cargo load of 3,000 kg (6,614 lb). The load bed is designed to accommodate four 1000mm × 1200mm (40" x 48") NATO standard military pallets or a single tricon (one-third ISO 20 ft) container..

Here is System information for the Hawkei PMV Australian 4x4 Protected Mobility Vehicle:
The Alternative Designation is Hawkei PMV.
The Type is Protected Mobility Vehicle.
The Manufacturer is Thales Australia.
The Crew is Generally 4 to 6.
The Passenger Capacity is INA.

Here is Dimensions information for the Hawkei PMV Australian 4x4 Protected Mobility Vehicle:
The Length is 5,780mm.
The Width is 2,396mm.
The Height is 2,300mm.
The Weight, Combat is 7,000 kg (15,432 lb) (kerb),
10,000 kg (22,046 lb) (GVM).

Here is Automotive information for the Hawkei PMV Australian 4x4 Protected Mobility Vehicle:
The Engine Name is Steyr M16.
The Engine Type is six-cylinder turbocharged diesel engine..
The Engine Power is 200 kW (268 hp) @ 4,000rpm
610 N⋅m (450 lb⋅ft) @ 2,000rpm.
The Range is 600.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 130km/h (max)
100km/h (governed).
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.
The Steering System is Power rack and pinion.
The Suspension is AxleTech 3000, fully independent suspension, coil and double wishbone.
The Transmission is List of ZF transmissions#8-speed auto, eight-speed automatic.

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Hawkei PMV Australian 4x4 Protected Mobility Vehicle:
The Note is A remotely controlled weapon station (RCWS) is installed in the Hawkei vehicle. It is an automated control weapon station principally used for light and medium-caliber weapons. The RCWS can accommodate remote control weapons encompassing 5.56mm, 7.62mm, and 12.7mm machine guns, 40mm automatic grenade launchers, anti-tank missiles, and observation pods.

The RCWS can accommodate weapons up to 12.7mm machine guns and is manufactured by Samson Technologies Corporation, US..

Here is Protection information for the Hawkei PMV Australian 4x4 Protected Mobility Vehicle:
The Armor is Greater than STANAG 4569, Level 1. Additional Applique armor is provided by Plasan composite and V-shaped monocoque hull..
The Applique Armor is INA.
The Active Protection System is INA.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is No.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

