This document describes the FV 510 Warrior British Infantry Fighting Vehicle (IFV).

The Warrior tracked vehicle family is a series of British armored vehicles, originally developed to replace the older FV430 series of armored vehicles. The Warrior started life as the MCV-80, "Mechanized Combat Vehicle for the 1980s". One of the requirements of the new vehicle was a top speed able to keep up with the projected new MBT, the MBT-80 - later canceled and replaced by what became the Challenger 1 - which the then-current FV432 could not. The project was begun in the 1970s. GKN Defense won the production contract in 1980. GKN Defence was purchased by BAE Systems, via Alvis plc.

A total of 789 FV510 and variants were manufactured for the British Army, and 254 of a modified version (Desert Warrior) was produced for the Kuwaiti Army.

The Warrior incorporates several design features in keeping with the UK's battlefield experience. In particular, there are no firing ports in the hull, in line with British thinking that the role of the armored personnel carrier/infantry fighting vehicle (APC/IFV) is to carry troops under protection to the objective and then give firepower support when they have disembarked. The absence of firing ports also allows additional appliqué armor to be fitted to the sides of the vehicle, which is invariably applied to Warriors involved in active operations. The cage armor used at one stage was replaced in 2007 by "Wrap Two" appliqué armor. The basic armor provides all-around protection against small arms ball ammunition.

The crew of a Warrior comprises the driver, seated in the front hull, and the gunner and commander, who are both seated in the turret. The embarked infantry section can number up to seven soldiers, who are seated facing each other in the rear hull compartment. Passenger access is through a single electric ram powered door at the rear of the hull, rather than a drop-down ramp as in the US M113 APC and M2 Bradley IFV. Warrior Section Vehicles are able to carry and support seven fully equipped soldiers together with supplies and weapons, including a number of anti-tank weapons, for a 48-hour battlefield day in nuclear/biological/chemical conditions.

The Warrior is driven by a Perkins-Rolls-Royce V8 Condor engine through a four-speed automatic gearbox. It is capable of a road speed of 46 miles per hour (74 km/h). The Warrior has the speed and performance to keep up with a Challenger 2 main battle tank over the most difficult terrain.

The vehicle is fitted with a two-man GKN Sankey turret, armed with a non-stabilized L21A1 30 mm RARDEN cannon capable of destroying some APCs at a maximum range of 1,500 meters (1,600 yd), and an L94A1 EX-34 7.62 mm Hughes Helicopters coaxial chain gun. It is fitted with two clusters of four defensive grenade launchers (usually used with Visual and Infrared Screening Smoke – VIRSS).

All Warrior Infantry Section Vehicles are now equipped with Bowman radios, which replaced the earlier Clansman radios, for enhanced communications, command and control. When first introduced, the vehicles were fitted with passive Image intensifier night vision sights. These have since been progressively replaced with Thales Optronics Battle Group Thermal Imaging (BGTI) sights to upgrade night fighting capabilities, with 8x magnification. As of 2007, 350 vehicles were fitted with BGTI.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Kuwait, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

Here is Variants information for the FV 510 Warrior British Infantry Fighting Vehicle (IFV):
The FV510 Infantry Section Vehicle is This is the principal version operated by the British Army, as described above. 489 were produced (including 105 as platforms for the mobility of ATGW teams, originally equipped with MILAN and later with Javelin)..
The FV511 Infantry Command Vehicle is 84 of these were produced..
The FV512 Mechanised Combat Repair Vehicle. is Operated by REME detachments in Armoured Infantry battalions. It is equipped with a 6.5 tonne crane plus power tools and is able to tow a trailer carrying two Warrior power packs or one Challenger power pack. 105 of these were produced..
The FV513 Mechanised Recovery Vehicle (Repair) is Also operated by REME detachments in Armoured Infantry battalions. It is equipped with a 20 tonne winch and 6.5 tonne crane plus power tools and (like the FV512) is able to tow a trailer carrying two Warrior power packs or one Challenger power pack. 39 of these were produced..
The FV514 Mechanised Artillery Observation Vehicle is This is operated by the Royal Artillery as an Artillery Observation Post Vehicle (OPV) and is fitted with mast-mounted Man-packable Surveillance and Target Acquisition Radar (MSTAR) and Position and Azimuth Determining System (PADS), with Image Intensifying and Infra Red equipment. The only armament is the 7.62 mm machine gun, as the 30 mm Rarden cannon is replaced by a dummy weapon. This allows space for the targeting and surveillance equipment while still keeping largely the same outward appearance of a standard Warrior in order to avoid becoming a priority target. 52 of these were produced..
The FV515 Battery Command Vehicle is This is operated by the Royal Artillery. 19 of these were produced.
Desert Warrior. This was an export version adapted for operations in hostile desert conditions. It was fitted with the Delco turret as used on the LAV-25 wheeled IFV, mounting a stabilised M242 Bushmaster 25 mm chain gun with coaxial 7.62 mm chain gun and 2 x Hughes TOW ATGM launchers (one mounted on each side). In 1993, Kuwait purchased 254 Desert Warrior vehicles..
The Warrior 2000. is This was a new version developed for the Swiss Army. It did not enter production. It featured an all-welded aluminium hull, increased armour, digital fire control system and more powerful engine. It was fitted with the Delco turret, or a Land Systems Hagglunds E30 turret with Alliant Techsystems Bushmaster II Mk 44 30 mm cannon..

Here is System information for the FV 510 Warrior British Infantry Fighting Vehicle (IFV):
The Alternative Designation is Originally known as the MCV-80. Some Warrior variants in service with the UK have an alpha-numerical designation.
The Type is Infantry Fighting Vehicle (IFV).
The Manufacturer is GKN Sankey/BAe Systems.
The Estimated Service Life is 50+.
The Family is Warrior Class.
The Crew is 3.
The Passenger Capacity is 7.

Here is Dimensions information for the FV 510 Warrior British Infantry Fighting Vehicle (IFV):
The Length is 6.34.
The Width is 3.03.
The Height is 2.7.
The Weight, Combat is 25.7.

Here is Automotive information for the FV 510 Warrior British Infantry Fighting Vehicle (IFV):
The Engine Name is Perkins CV8 TCA.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 550.
The Cruising Range is 660.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 75.
The Speed, Average Cross is 50.
The Speed Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.
The Gradient is 60.
The Side Slope is 40.
The Vertical Step is 0.75.
The Trench is 2.5.
The Fording Depth is 1.3.
The Transmission is Allison X-300-4B transmission.

Here is Communications information for the FV 510 Warrior British Infantry Fighting Vehicle (IFV):
The Primary Radio is Bowman digital radio system.
The HF Radio is High Capacity Data Radio (HCDR).

Here is System information for the FV 510 Warrior British Infantry Fighting Vehicle (IFV) of the Main Gun:
The Name is 30 mm L21A1 RARDEN cannon.
The Type is 30.
The Load Type is Manual with three round clips.
The Automatic Firing Mode is 6.
The Overall Length is 3.15.
The Barrel Length is 2.44.
The Total Weight is 110.
The Barrel Weight is 24.5.
The Ammunition Types is Armour Piercing Secondary Effect (APSE), High Explosive Incendiary (HEI), Armour Piercing Discarding Sabot (APDS).
The Maximum Effective Range is 2,000.
The Rate of Fire is 90.

Here is Ammunition information for the FV 510 Warrior British Infantry Fighting Vehicle (IFV) of the Main Gun:
The Type is APSE, HEI.
The Caliber is 30.
The Cartridge is 30×170mm.
The Muzzle Velocity is 1,070.
The Maximum Effective Range is 2,000.
The Basic Load is 250.

Here is System information for the FV 510 Warrior British Infantry Fighting Vehicle (IFV) of the Coaxial Weapon System:
The Name is L94A1, Hughes EX-34 Chain Gun.
The Type is 7.62mm Chain Gun.
The Manufacturer is Heckler & Koch.
The In Service is 1980-present.
The Max Rate of Fire is INA.
The Weight is 17.86.
The Total Length is 1.25.
The Barrel Length is 703.
The Action is Electrically driven.
The Feed System is disintegrating link belt.
The Variants is EX-31, L95A1 (short barreled version).

Here is Ammunition information for the FV 510 Warrior British Infantry Fighting Vehicle (IFV) of the Coaxial Weapon System:
The Type is RIfle (Chain Gun).
The Caliber is 7.62.
The Cartridge is 7.62×51mm NATO (linked).
The Muzzle Velocity is 862.
The Basic Load is INA.
The Effective Firing Range is 200-3,000.
The Penetration is No, Low penetration makes it ineffective against armor.

Here is Fire Control information for the FV 510 Warrior British Infantry Fighting Vehicle (IFV):
The Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is Yes, Fire-Control (STAG FC) . Dual channel sight with integrated FCS for gunner.
The Thermal Sight Vehicle Commander is Yes, Battle Group Thermal Imaging (BGTI) system.
The Thermal Sight Gunner is Yes, Battle Group Thermal Imaging (BGTI) system.
The Main Gun Stabilization is No.
The CCD Camera for Commander is Yes.
The Commander Flat Panel Display is Yes.
The Platform Battlefield Infrastructure System Application (P-BISA) is Yes.

Here is Protection information for the FV 510 Warrior British Infantry Fighting Vehicle (IFV):
The Hull Armor (Front Arc) is all-round protection against 25mm armor-piercing rounds.
The Hull Armor (Sides and Back) is all-round protection against 14.5 mm armor-piercing rounds..
The Turret Armor is all-round protection against 25mm armor-piercing rounds.
The Applique Armor is Yes, after 2007 the Warrior IFV have the Warrior Added Protection (WRAP 2) avaialble.
The Explosive Reactive Armor is INA.
The Active Protection System is INA.
The Mine Clearing is Available, dozer blades or light mine-clearing ploughs..
The Self-Entrenching Blade is INA.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is Yes, two banks of four 66 mm smoke grenade.
The Firing Ports is No, to aid in protecting the vehicle.
The Engine Fire Protection System is Yes.
The Joint Combat Identification Marking System is Yes.
The Note is Around 70 vehicles, upgraded to Theatre Entry Standard Herrick (TES (H)) protection kit.

