This document describes the Mohajer-4 (Hodhod) Iranian Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

HEZBOLLAH Proliferation. 
The Mohajer-4 is another evolutionary improvement over the Mohajer-1 and the Mohajer-2.  with again improved range, endurance, and surveillance. Also known as the Hodhod, the Mohajer-4 has a larger box-like fuselage. The Mohajer-4 was designed for both the Iranian Army and the IRGC and entered service in late 1997. The wings are tapered with an upward cranked tip. The static skids of the Mohajer-2 are replaced with flexible ones in a tricycle configuration. Composite materials are used in its construction. 

The Mohajer-4 was designed for both the Iranian Army and the IRGC and entered service in late 1997. It may have entered mass production in 1999. It was first documented in 2003. Sources differ slightly on how many have been built; one source says that 40 have been built as of 2006, while another says that as of the mid-2000s, 34 had been built.

Design
The Mohajer-4 features a squarish body and low-mounted trapezoidal wings with upward-canted wingtips to lessen drag. It is powered by a two-bladed Limbach L550E four-cylinder, two-stroke 50 hp engine in a pusher configuration. The Mohajer-4 is constructed of composite material. It is 3.64 m long and has a wingspan of 5.3 m. The Mohajer-4 has a modular design, and components such as the body, wings, and tail booms can be detached and recombined.

It has three landing skids. The Mohajer-4 can land via landing gear or a parachute.
The Mohajer-4 has a Hyarat 3 guidance and control system, which includes GPS navigation. It normally follows a preprogrammed flight path, but its mission profile can also be updated in-flight via a radio uplink. The Mohajer-4 has a fixed forward-facing camera for navigation and either a downward-facing camera for aerial surveying or a gimbal-mounted video camera for surveillance. Sources disagree on whether the Mojajer-4 can carry an infrared camera. Like the Mohajer-2, it has an onboard digital processor and can downlink sensor imagery. The Mohajer-4 is also reportedly capable of being fitted for communications relay and has an 'impressive' electronic warfare capability.

Operational History: On November 7, 2004, Hezbollah flew a UAV over northern Israel for about 5 minutes. The UAV entered Israeli airspace at more than 100 knots and an altitude of about 1,000 feet, flew briefly over the seaside city of Nahariya and fell into the sea. Some sources have identified the UAV as a Mohajer-4. There are reports that Iran sold eight Mohajer-4s to Hezbollah.

Mohajer-4s have been used in the civil wars in Iraq and Syria. On 16 May 2015, the Turkish Air Force shot down a Mohajer-4 that violated its airspace. Mohajer-4s have also crashed or been shot down, over Islamic State-held territories. A Mohajer-4 in Iraqi markings was downed over Iraq, but it is not clear if the UAV was actually being operated by the Iraqi Armed Forces.

Mohajer-4s are located at Iran's Konorak Air Base and at Bandar Jack. There is a designation of the Mohajer-4 called "Shahin", which may be a sub-variant with unknown differences, or a designation for the Mohajer-4 in Iranian Army Ground service. There is also another sub-variant with unknown differences called the "Hodhod A/100".

In addition, Mohajer-4s are used by Iran's border guard to interdict drug smuggling.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Iran (Islamic Republic of), Non-State Actors.

Here is Variants information for the Mohajer-4 (Hodhod) Iranian Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Mohajer-1 is The Mohajer was Iran's first drone to enter series production and was used during the Iran–Iraq War. The Mohajer-1 was known simply as "Mohajer" through the 80s and 90s when it was re-designated "Mohajer-1" as other Mohajer variants had been developed..
The Mohajer-2 is Following the successful use of the Mohajer-1, Iran wanted a version with more range and endurance. This version, which would later be named the Mohajer-2, also had an auto pilot system to fly beyond the line-of-control of its command center..
The Mohajer-2N is In 2014, Iran introduced the Mohajer-2N, which shares the same design as the Mohajer-2 but has far improved performance. The Mohajer-2N replaces the electronics of the Mohajer-2 with more modern versions and has also has improved flight characteristics..
The Mohajer-3 is The Mohajer-3, also known as the Dorna, was designed with a new airframe for better performance. It had a square body and featured a low-mounted horizontal stabilizer flush with the main wing, the only member of the Mohajer family configured this way..
The Mohajer-4B is Also known as the Sadiq, the Mohajer-4B is a significant evolution of the Mohajer-4 platform with a square fuselage, twin tail booms, a top-mounted horizontal stabilizer, wingtips, new landing skids, and straight wings mounted high and to the mid of the body.
The Sadegh-1 is The Sadegh-1 ("Honest-1"), also known as the QOM-1, is simply a Mohajer-4B with two MANPADS mounted on pylons.It was tested in late 2014..
The Mohajer-6 is The Qods Mohajer-6 is a persistent ISTAR UAV capable of carrying a multispectral surveillance payload and/or up-to two precision-guided munitions. Ten have been manufactured as of February 2018 for the IRGC Ground Forces, and 40 are planned for the IRGC Navy. The Mohajer-6 complements the larger Shahed 129 operated by the third IRGC branch, the IRGC-ASF. Three have also been delivered to the Iranian Army.

The Mohajer-6 has a rectangular fuselage, an upwards-sloping nose, twin tail booms, a top-mounted horizontal stabilizer, uncanted wingtips, straight wings mounted high and to the rear of the body, and air intakes on the top and bottom of the engine. The Mohajer-6 is controlled by two elevators on the horizontal stabilizer, rudders on the vertical stabilizers, and two flaps per wing. Unlike other Mohajer variants, it has a three-bladed propeller. The Mohajer-6 has a wingspan of 10 meters and is 5.67 meters long. It is similar in shape to the Selex ES Falco.

The Mohajer-6 has fixed tricycle landing gear, which underwent changes between the unveiling ceremony in 2017 and mass production in 2018, perhaps to accommodate more weight. It is launched and recovered via runway takeoff/landing.

It has a fixed, forward-facing camera for navigation and a gimbal on the chin for a laser range finder and multispectral IR and visible light electro-optical imagery. The Mohajer-6 has three antennas, two on its left-wing and one on its right, and a pitot tube on its nose. The Mohajer-6 has two hardpoints, one under each wing, which can each carry one Qaem TV/IR-guided missile. It has an autopilot system capable of automatic takeoff and landing. In addition, Iran describes it as capable of being fitted with electronic support measures, communications jamming, or electronic warfare payloads..

Here is Dimensions information for the Mohajer-4 (Hodhod) Iranian Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is 3.64.
The Width (Wing Span) is 5.3.
The Height is INA.
The Weight, Maximum Takeoff is 175.
The Weight, Empty is 70.
The Tailbooms is Twin.
The Wing Type is low-mounted trapezoidal wings with upward-canted wingtips to lessen drag.
The Tail Type is Horizontal tail.
The Note is The Mohajer-4 has a modular design, and components such as the body, wings, and tailbooms can be detached and recombined..

Here is Automotive information for the Mohajer-4 (Hodhod) Iranian Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is Limbach L550E four-cylinder, two-stroke 50 hp engine.
The Engine Type is Four-cylinder, two-stroke 50 hp engine.
The Engine Power is 50.
The Cruising Range is 150.
The Speed, Maximum is 200.
The Speed, Average is INA.
The Endurance is 7 hours.
The Maximum Ceiling is 5,486.
The Radius is 50.
The Cargo Capacity (Payload) is 15.
The Propellers is 2-bladed.
The Rudders is Twin Rudders.
The Belly Skid is Yes, The belly skids are non-retractable, but can compress on landing to reduce shock.

Here is Communications information for the Mohajer-4 (Hodhod) Iranian Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Radio is INA.
The Retrans Radio is INA.

Here is Main Weapons System information for the Mohajer-4 (Hodhod) Iranian Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Name is Hydra 70.
The Type is Unguided Rocket.
The In Service is INA.
The Manufacturer is INA.
The Proliferation is WIdely Proliferated. The Hydra is widely used by US and allied forces, competing with the Canadian CRV-7, with which it is physically interchangeable..
The Guidance System is Unguided Rocket.
The Length is 1,060.
The Diameter is 70.
The Weight is 6.2.
The Muzzle Velocity is 700.
The Effective Firing Range is 8,000.
The Maximum Firing Range is 10,500.
The Speed is 739.
The Basic Load is 2.

Here is Fire Control information for the Mohajer-4 (Hodhod) Iranian Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Fire Control System Type is INA.
The Fire Control Radar is No.
The Radar Type is INA.
The Radar Designator is INA.
The Laser Rangefinder is INA.
The Laser Designator is INA.
The Full-Motion Video is Yes, video and infrared with 1-m resolution mounted on the forward part of the fuselage.
The Still Camera is static nose-mounted camera.
The Thermal Imaging Sensors is INA.
The Electro Optical Pod is INA.
The Forward-Looking Infrared (FLIR) Sensors. is Yes.
The Onboard Digital Processor is Yes, which can downlink sensor imagery.
The Navigation Camera is Fixed forward-facing camera for navigation.
The Surveillanc Camera is Either a downward-facing camera for aerial surveying or a gimbal-mounted video camera for surveillance.
The GPS Enabled is Yes.
The Guidance System is Hyarat 3 guidance and control system.
The Data Link is Yes, data link that can downlink imagery in real time.
The Note is A line-scanner is provided, which reportedly can provide 3-ft (1-m) resolution at an altitude of 16,400 ft (5,000 m).

Here is Protection information for the Mohajer-4 (Hodhod) Iranian Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Fuselage is Larger box-like fuselage.
The Stealth Properties is No.
The Heat Signature Reduction is No.
The Add on Armor is No.
The EW is No.
The EW Counter Measures / CCM is No.
The Counter Measures (Chaffs/Flares) is No.

