This document describes the Sharp Claw II Chinese 6x6 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).

The Sharp Claw II Chinese 6x6 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) is designed for conducting a variety of roles including reconnaissance, surveillance, combat engineering support, logistic, and combat roles.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is System information for the Sharp Claw II Chinese 6x6 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Alternative Designation is Sharp Claw II.
The Type is Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).
The Manufacturer is NORINCO.
The Configuration is 6x6.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Control is Sharp Claw II consists of a radio communications link via remote control. The remote station is equipped with video displays, navigation and control systems, and steering mechanism..
The Sensors and Emitters is Various sensors such as day/night vision systems, CCD cameras, and EO devices can be incorporated as well as thermal imaging.
The Note #1 is Sharp Claw II is fitted with a front bumper that could possibly incorporate sensors for mine and/or IED detection..
The Note #2 is The platform has a cargo bay at the back to store a small UGV and can deploy a quadcopter surveillance drone. The cargo bay can also be used as a landing pad for a quadcopter drone..
The Note #3 is Sharp Claw II is designed to work in tandem with Sharp Claw I..

Here is Dimensions information for the Sharp Claw II Chinese 6x6 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Weight is 1,000 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Sharp Claw II Chinese 6x6 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Electric.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Cruising Range is 50 km.
The Operational Range is 2,500 m.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 30 km/h.
The Endurance is 4 hours.

Here is Communications information for the Sharp Claw II Chinese 6x6 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Note is The Sharp Claw II Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) has multi-channel communication systems onboard. The Sharp II acts as a control relay station with two sets of operating systems: one for the quadcopter drone and one for operating Sharp Claw I at an effective distance of 2,500 m..

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Sharp Claw II Chinese 6x6 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Note is The Sharp Claw II Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) has been displayed with a remote weapon system..

Here is Protection information for the Sharp Claw II Chinese 6x6 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is INA.

