This document describes the LLC (LHD Landing Craft) Australian Mechanized Landing Craft.

The LHD Landing Craft (LCM-1E) Australian Mechanized Landing Craft is a class of amphibious mechanized landing craft manufactured by Navantia at their factory in San Fernando. These craft are intended to deliver troops and equipment onshore from amphibious assault ships during amphibious assaults. The craft are operated by the Spanish Navy and the Royal Australian Navy (the latter referring to the vessels as LHD Landing Craft or LLC.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Australia, Spain.

Here is Variants information for the LLC (LHD Landing Craft) Australian Mechanized Landing Craft:
The Spain's Vessels is The Spanish LCM-1Es are assigned to the Naval Beach Group, based at Naval Station Props. Since joining the Spanish Navy, four of the 12 units built in the shipyards of San Fernando and Puerto Real have been involved in a mission in Lebanon, where they have been used for beach landing marines..
The Australia Vessels is In 2009, the Australian Defense Force began plans to acquire landing craft for the under-construction Canberra-class landing helicopter dock ships. Arrangements were made to acquire craft from Navantia (the builder responsible for the LHDs), and in September 2011, the purchase of 12 LCM-1E craft was approved by the Australian government. The landing craft were delivered in batches of four: the first batch in May 2014, followed by the second in February 2015, with the third due by mid-2015. In Australian service, the craft are referred to as LLCs (LHD Landing Craft), and six are assigned to each of the Canberra-class ships: four embarked, two assigned to shore facilities for training and trials, and rotated aboard as embarked craft require maintenance..

Here is System information for the LLC (LHD Landing Craft) Australian Mechanized Landing Craft:
The Alternative Designation is LLC; LHD Landing Craft; LCM-1E.
The Type is Mechanized Landing Craft.
The Builder is Navantia.
The Crew is 4.
The Cargo Capacity is 1 × main battle tank; or
1 × self-propelled howitzer plus resupply vehicle; or
2 × MOWAG Piranha; or
6 × light tactical vehicles; or
170 x personnel with equipment..
The Ramps is 1 x Bow Ramp, 1 X Stern Ramp.

Here is Dimensions information for the LLC (LHD Landing Craft) Australian Mechanized Landing Craft:
The Length is 23.3 m.
The Height is INA.
The Beam is 6.4 m.
The Draft is 1.0 m.
The Displacement, Standard is 55.6 tons.
The Displacement, Full Load is 110 tons.

Here is Propulsion System information for the LLC (LHD Landing Craft) Australian Mechanized Landing Craft:
The Engine Name is 2 × MAN D-2842 LE 402X.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 809 kW each.
The Waterjets is 2 × MJP CSU650 waterjets.
The Maximum Range is 350 km.
The Maximum Speed is 22 knots (41 km/h) light
13.5 knots (25.0 km/h) loaded.

Here is Protection information for the LLC (LHD Landing Craft) Australian Mechanized Landing Craft:
The Countermeasures is No.
The NBC Water Washdown System is Yes.
The Electronic Warfare is No.

