This document describes the WA600-8 Japanese Large Size Front-End Loader.

Machine Performance
Redesigned Komatsu bucket with liner and bolt- on ground engagement tooling (GET) fills more easily and retains material better for up to 7% increased productivity.

Powerful Komatsu SAA6D170E-7 Tier4 Final engine with advanced engine timing optimizes performance and reduces emissions.

Variable traction control and modulated clutch systems provide optimal tractive effort for all ground conditions.

Large Capacity Lock-up Torque Converter provides quick acceleration and automatically engages in 2nd, 3rd, and 4th gear, requiring no action from the operator.

Ultimate Efficiency
Automatic Digging System performs bucket curl and boom lift during digging to reduce operator fatigue and help optimize bucket fill factors.

Komatsu SmartLoader Logic helps reduce fuel consumption without decreasing production.

Fuel Consumption Decreased up to 13% in E mode.

Dual work modes allow the operator to select between Power and Economy modes to optimize the machine efficiency and performance to match the application.

Komatsu Quality
All major hydraulic and power train components (engine, transmission, pumps, cylinders, etc) are designed and manufactured by Komatsu which helps increase efficiency and performance by working together in harmony.

Castings are used in high stress areas such as the bell-crank to increase durability and visibility.

Standard RH full fender with steps and handrail provides improved access to engine compartment for daily checks.

Operator Environment
The pillar-less operator's cabin provides the operator with a large, quiet and pressurized work environment while providing excellent visibility during operation.

New high capacity air suspension operator's seat with heat and dampener is now standard.

New 7'' LCD high resolution monitor with key pad allows the operator fast, accurate viewing of operational information.

New rear view monitor system with separate monitor is standard.

Standard Advanced Joystick Steering System (AJSS) helps optimize steering control while reducing operator fatigue.

Maintenance KOMTRAX
Komatsu CARE complimentary factory scheduled engine maintenance for 3 years or 2,000 hrs, and up to 2 complimentary KDPF exchange assemblies within the first 5 years.

Battery disconnect switch is located at ground level and can be locked with a standard padlock.

Reversible cooling fan swings out for ease of cleaning.

Convenient Diesel Exhaust Fluid (DEF) fill access with sight gauge.

Standard onboard diagnostics with KOMTRAX, monitor machine utilization, maintenance reminders, fuel consumption, working modes, KDPF regeneration, DEF level, payload data, and receive e-mail notifications of important events.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Australia, Japan, United States of America.

Here is System information for the WA600-8 Japanese Large Size Front-End Loader:
The Alternative Designation is WA600-8.
The Type is Large Size Front-End Loader.
The Crew is 1.

Here is Dimensions information for the WA600-8 Japanese Large Size Front-End Loader:
The Length is 471.86 in.
The Width Over Tires is 11.62ft in.
The Wheelbase is 14.77ft in.
The Height To Top Of Cab is 14.64ft in.
The Turning Circle is 56.47ft in.
The Operating Weight is 119049.7 lb.

Here is Automotive information for the WA600-8 Japanese Large Size Front-End Loader:
The Engine Name is SAA6D170E-5.
The Engine Type is Water-cooled, 4-cycle.
The Horsepower, Gross-Sae J1995 is 531.1 hp.
The Horsepower, Net-Iso 9249 is 527.1 hp.
The Steering System Type is Articulated.
The Minimum Turning Radius At The Centre Of Outside Tire is 23.3ft in.
The Lubrication Method is Gear pump, force-lubricatio.
The Filter is Full-flow type.
The Governor is All-speed, electronic.
The Aspiration is Turbocharged, after cooledEGR.
The Fuel System is Direct injection.
The Brake is Hydraulic, Wet disc.
The Ride Control System is Standard.
The Maximum Speeds/Fwd Mph is 37 km/h.
The Maximum Speeds/Rev Mph is 37 km/h.
The Transmission is Automatic Powershift.
The Number Of Speeds - Forward is 4.
The Number Of Speeds - Reverse is 4.
The Fuel Tank - Diesel is 189.7gal.
The Engine Oil is 22.8gal.
The Max Speed - Forward is 21.1 mph.
The Max Speed - Reverse is 23 mph.
The Parking Brake is Wet.
The Service Brake is Hydraulically actuated.
The Emergency Brake is Parking brake is commonly used.
The Drive System is Four-wheel drive.

Here is Operational information for the WA600-8 Japanese Large Size Front-End Loader:
The Bucket Capacity Range – Sae is 6.4 - 7.0 m3.
The Standard Bucket Capacity – Sae is 8.4yd3.
The Bucket Description is GP Bucket, Bolt Edge.
The Static Tipping Load,Full Turn is 50510.2lb.
The Breakout Force is 25000 kgf.
The Dump Clearance, @45 Degrees Dump Angle is 10.9ft in.
The Dump Reach, @45 Degrees Dump Angle is 5ft in.
The Bucket Width is 9ft in.
The Bucket Link Type is Z-bar.

Here is Hydraulic System information for the WA600-8 Japanese Large Size Front-End Loader:
The Steering Pump Type is Piston Pump.
The Loader Control Type is Piston Pump.
The Number Of Cylinders is 2.
The Bore is 4.6 in.
The No.Of.Bucket Cylinders is 1.
The Loader Control Capacity is 126.3gal/min.
The Control Valve is 2-spool type.
The Control Positions Boom is Raise, hold, lower, and float.
The Control Positions Bucket is Tilt-back, hold, and dump.
The Hydraulic Cylinders Type is Double-acting, piston type.
The Lift Cylinder Stroke is 42.1 in.
The Lift Cylinder Bore is 7.9 in.
The Bucket Cylinde Bore is 8.9 in.
The Bucket Cylinde Stroke is 30.6 in.
The Pump Flow Capacity is 43.1gal/min.
The Raise Time is 9.3 sec.
The Dump Time is 2.3 sec.
The Lower Time is 4.1 sec.

