This document describes the KT-1 Woongbi (Great Leap) South Korean Light Training Aircraft.

The KAI KT-1 Woongbi (Hangul: KT-1 웅비) is a Korean single-engined turboprop, basic training aircraft. It was jointly developed by Korean Aerospace Industries (KAI) and the Agency for Defense Development (ADD). The KT-1 is the first completely indigenous Korean aircraft ever developed.

The KT-1 can be equipped with either an analog or 'glass' cockpit configuration. Some variants feature additional avionics and systems, such as a night vision goggles (NVG)-compatible cockpit, head-up display (HUD), multi-function displays (MFD), GPS/inertial navigation system, mission computer, onboard oxygen generation system, a vapor-cycle environmental control system and hands-on-throttle-and-stick (HOTAS)-compatible controls. Avionics are provided by various foreign companies, including Elbit, Flight Vision and Thales.

When equipped for the light attack missions, the aircraft can be furnished with various guns, bombs, rockets and missiles dependent upon customer requirements. Other equipment can include external fuel tanks, a centrally mounted forward-looking infrared (FLIRA) sensor and a laser range finder. In terms of visual appearance, the KT-1 is reminiscent of the Pilatus PC-9, a wide-used trainer aircraft at the time of its development.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Indonesia, Peru, Senegal, South Korea (Republic of Korea), Turkey.

Here is Variants information for the KT-1 Woongbi (Great Leap) South Korean Light Training Aircraft:
The KTX-1 Yeo-myung is Prototype primary trainer each with a different engine fitted, six built. KTX-1 turboprop trainer in 1988, and the first prototype flew in 1991. The first two prototypes were powered by the 550-shp. Pratt & Whitney Canada PT6A-25A turboprop..
The KT-1 is KT-1 is the basic trainer of the ROKAF. Compared to the KTX-1 prototype, the KT-1 is bigger, heavier, the tail surfaces are relocated and it has a more powerful P&W Canada PT6A-62.(950-shp).
The KA-1 is An armed advanced trainer with light-attack and forward air control capabilities. Several new features unique to the KA-1 are a head-up display and up-front control panel, MFD panels, and five hardpoints, two under each wing and one under the fuselage. The hardpoints may be equipped with rocket launchers, gun pods or AIM-9 Sidewinder missiles..
The KT-1B is Export version for Indonesia. Main differences are in terms of avionics, some of which have been excluded or have had commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) alternatives used instead..
The KT-1C is Improved, armed export version equipped with a centerline forward looking infrared pod. The KT-1C may also be equipped with a 12.7 mm gun pod, chaffes, flares, training missiles, rockets or unguided bombs..
The KT-1T is Export version for Turkey..
The KT-1P is Export version for Peru..
The KA-1P is Armed export version for Peru..
The KA-1S is Armed export version for Senegal..

Here is System information for the KT-1 Woongbi (Great Leap) South Korean Light Training Aircraft:
The Alternate Designation(s) is KT-1 Woongb (Great Leap).
The Type is Light Training Aircraft.
The Manufacturer is Korea Aerospace Industries.
The Crew is 2.
The Number of Engines is 1.
The Number of Hard Points is INA.

Here is Dimensions information for the KT-1 Woongbi (Great Leap) South Korean Light Training Aircraft:
The Length is 10.26 m.
The Width (Wing Span) is 10.59 m.
The Wing Area is 16.01 m2.
The Height is 3.68 m.
The Empty Weight is 1,910 kg.
The Gross Weight is 2,540 kg.
The Maximum Takeoff Weight is 3,311 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the KT-1 Woongbi (Great Leap) South Korean Light Training Aircraft:
The Engine Name is 1 × Pratt & Whitney Canada PT6A-62.
The Engine Type is Turboprop.
The Engine Power is 708 kW (949 hp).
The Propellers is 4-bladed Hartzell HC-E4N-2/E9512CB-1, 2.44 m (8 ft 0 in) diameter constant-speed fully feathering reversible propeller.
The Maximum Speed is 518 km/h.
The Maximum Operating Speed is 574 km/h.
The Stall Speed is 32 km/h.
The Never to Exceed Speed is 648 km/h.
The Range is 1,333 km with max internal fuel (30 minutes reserve).
The Ferry Range is 2,070 km with max internal and external fuel (30 minutes reserve).
The Endurance is <4 hours at 6,100 m with max internal fuel (30 minutes reserve).
The Service Ceiling is 11,580 m.
The G Limits is +7 -3.5 (aerobatic, clean).
The Rate of Climb is 17.78 m/s at sea level, clean.

Here is Armament information for the KT-1 Woongbi (Great Leap) South Korean Light Training Aircraft:
The Note is provision for practice bomb carriers on four underwing pylons..

Here is Protection information for the KT-1 Woongbi (Great Leap) South Korean Light Training Aircraft:
The Stealth Properties is None.
The Heat Signature Reduction is No.
The Add on Armor is No.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The EW Counter Measures is No.
The Chaffs/Flares is No.

