This document describes the Phantom 2 Ukrainian 8x8 Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV).

The Phantom 2 Ukrainian 8x8 Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV) has an elongated chassis in comparison to its predecessor, the Fantom, to provide stability for more powerful weaponry.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Ukraine.

Here is System information for the Phantom 2 Ukrainian 8x8 Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV):
The Alternative Designation is Phantom 2; Fantom 2.
The Type is Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).
The Manufacturer is SpetsTechnoExport (part of Ukroboronprom).
The Configuration is 8x8.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Operator is The vehicle is operated from a remote control station..
The Software is The vehicle can autonomously avoid obstacles, use waypoint navigation as well as returning to base..
The Cameras is The sensor package includes a visual odometry system using several cameras (with two FoV wide and narrow), thermal camera, and a laser rangefinder..
The Payload Capacity is 850 kg.

Here is Dimensions information for the Phantom 2 Ukrainian 8x8 Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV):
The Length is 4.20 m.
The Width is 1.84 m.
The Height is 1.20 m.
The Wheelbase is INA.
The Weight, Combat is 1,600 kg.
The Weight, Empty is INA.
The Ground Clearance is 40 cm.

Here is Automotive information for the Phantom 2 Ukrainian 8x8 Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV):
The Engine Name is Deutz BF 4M 1013 FC.
The Engine Type is 4 cylinders, turbocharged, diesel.
The Engine Power is 191 hp at 2,300 rpm.
The Amphibious is No.
The Maximum Speed is 58 km/h.
The Maximum Gradient is 60%.
The Side Slope is 40%.
The Suspension is Independent hydraulic.
The Fording is 50 cm.
The Endurance is 10 h.

Here is Communications information for the Phantom 2 Ukrainian 8x8 Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV):
The Maximum Radio Operating Range is 20 km.
The Maximum Tethered Operating Range is 5 km.
The Maximum Satellite Operating Range is Unlimited.

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Phantom 2 Ukrainian 8x8 Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV):
The Note is A number of weapon tests were carried out on the Phantom 2 Ukrainian 8x8 Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV), which include: A Block B-8V20A launcher;  ‘Stugna-P' ATGM system; Korsar ‘Corsair' light, portable anti-tank system; 60 mm mortar system; and a 120 mm mortar system..

Here is Protection information for the Phantom 2 Ukrainian 8x8 Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV):
The Armor is Steel hull.
The Applique Armor is INA.

