This document describes the 702D Chinese Artillery Meteorological Radar Vehicle.

The 702D meteorological radar station consists of two truck shelters, the meteorological radar shelter, and the meteorological support shelter. These two shelters are mounted on a 4x4 truck chassis. Associated Systems include: NORINCO 155 mm coastal defense gun system; PLZ-45 self-propelled howitzer; and the 90B 122mm MLRS.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is System information for the 702D Chinese Artillery Meteorological Radar Vehicle:
The Alternative Designation is 702D.
The Type is Artillery Meteorological Radar Vehicle.
The Crew is INA.
The Chassis is The station is based on two Steyr 4×4 trucks, with one carrying the radar and the other the support equipment..
The 702D Package Includes is - Antenna assembly;
- Elevating ball guide screw mechanism;
- Main control console;
- Terminal computer system;
- Communication system;
- Power distribution box;
- Air conditioning unit.
The Frequency is .
The Detection Range is 200 km.
The Altitude Range is 25 km.
The Tracking Accuracy Azimuth is 0.1 deg.
The Tracking Accuracy Range is 15 m.
The Onboard Equipment is Circular antenna, Elevating ball guide screw mechanism, Main control console, Terminal computer system, Communication system, Power distribution box, Air conditioning unit.
The Operating Temperature is –90° (min) to 55° (max).
The Emplacement Time is Less than 20 minutes.
The Displacement Time is Less than 20 minutes.

Here is Dimensions information for the 702D Chinese Artillery Meteorological Radar Vehicle:
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Weight, Combat is INA.

Here is Automotive information for the 702D Chinese Artillery Meteorological Radar Vehicle:
The Engine Name is Deutz 1013/1015.
The Engineer Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 220~480hp.
The Fuel Capacity is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 85 km/h.
The Maximum Range is 800 km.

Here is Protection information for the 702D Chinese Artillery Meteorological Radar Vehicle:
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is INA.
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is No.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is No.

