This document describes the SG-43 Goryunov Russian 7.62mm Medium Machine Gun.

The SG-43 Goryunov (Russian: Станковый пулемет системы Горюнова, Stankovyy pulemet sistemi Goryunova, meaning "Mounted machinegun, Goryunov design") was a Soviet medium machine gun that was introduced during the Second World War. It was chambered for the 7.62×54mmR cartridge, and was introduced in 1943 as a replacement for the older M1910 Maxim machine guns. It was mounted on wheeled mounts, tripods and armored vehicles.

The SG-43 used a tilting breechblock, moving sideways and locking into the side of the receiver. The feed is not straightforward, as the gun fires the 7.62×54mmR round, and this has to be withdrawn rearwards from the belt before ramming into the breech. The reciprocating motion is achieved by using two claws to pull the round from the belt, and then an arm pushes the round into the cartridge guide ready for the bolt to carry it to the breech. Despite this complication, the SG-43 was remarkably reliable and feed jams were apparently few.

The barrel is air-cooled and massively dense, contributing to a fairly high overall weight. The bore is chromium-plated and able to withstand continuous fire for long periods. The barrel can also be easily changed by releasing a simple lock, and the carrying handle allows a hot barrel to be lifted clear without difficulty. The World War II version of the gun had a smooth outline to the barrel, and the cocking handle was under the receiver, with no dust covers to the feed and ejection ports.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Afghanistan, Albania, Bangladesh, Burundi, Central African Republic, China, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Egypt, Finland, Georgia, Germany, Hungary, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Libya, Mali, Mongolia, North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Poland, Romania, Russian Federation, Somalia, Syria, Tanzania, Yemen, Zimbabwe.

Here is Variants information for the SG-43 Goryunov Russian 7.62mm Medium Machine Gun:
The SGM is After the end of World War II, the SG-43 was improved and renamed SGM ("M" for modernized); dust covers and a new barrel lock were fitted, and a splined barrel was fitted to improve cooling..
The SGMT is A coaxially-mounted stockless electric solenoid-fired variant was developed under the designation SGMT (the "T" standing for Tankovy, or "Tank")..
The SGMB is he SG-43M and SGMB are versions modified with dust covers and used mostly on armoured personnel carriers.

Here is System information for the SG-43 Goryunov Russian 7.62mm Medium Machine Gun of the System:
The Name is SG-43 Goryunov.
The Type is 7.62mm Medium Machine Gun.
The Manufacturer is P.M. Goryunov.
The Length is 1,150.
The Barrel Length is 720.
The Action is Gas-Operated.
The Rate of Fire is 500-700.
The Effective Firing Range is 1100.
The Maximum firing range is 1,500.
The Feed System is 200 or 250 round belts.
The Sights is Iron Sights.
The Variants is SG-43, SGM, SGMT, SGMB.

Here is Ammunition information for the SG-43 Goryunov Russian 7.62mm Medium Machine Gun of the System:
The Type is Rifle.
The Caliber is 7.62mm.
The Cartridge is 7.62×54mmR.
The Muzzle Velocity is 800.
The Basic Load is 1,000.

