This document describes the Vityaz DT-10PM Russian All Terrain Carrier.

The DT-10PM articulated tracked vehicle's function is to carry munitions, military equipment, and personnel through difficult terrain and weather conditions. It has excellent offroad capabilities in any season, including swamps, virgin snow, unimproved dirt roads and water obstacles throughout Russia’s Siberia and far east districts. These are two unit transport vehicles with all four tracks driving.

Because of low ground pressure, the vehicle is theoretically immune to certain types of at mines. ATVs are indispensable as recovery vehicles, since they have a high pull ratio and can approach a stuck or damaged vehicle from any direction in bad road conditions. The DT-10PM transporters are very efficient as part of search and rescue teams operating in extreme conditions (bad roads, floods, snow-drifts, land and snow slides and large-scale destruction) when it is necessary to evacuate people, animals, and various cargoes up to 30 ton by weight, or transport rescue teams, medical personnel, various equipment and food to the affected area.

The DT-10PM has a fully enclosed forward control cab, which provides seating for driver and four passengers. Engine compartment is located behind the cab. The rear unit can accommodate a variety of bodies. In some cases the rear unit can vary considerably from the front. This all-terrain tracked transporter is fully amphibious. On water it is propelled by its tracks.

Owing to their unique design, the Vityaz family of ATVs are capable of operating in conditions impossible for other all-terrain vehicles, for example:
•	Amphibious return to a mother ship
•	Off-road movement with one unit disabled or without one, or even without both tracks of one of the units
•	Negotiating ditches and clefts up to 4.0 m wide
•	Unloading of a ship offshore if it cannot come close to waterfront (i.e. in the Arctic and Antarctic regions, or in flooded regions, etc.); negotiating waterways in severe ice conditions
•	Operation in mountains up to an altitude of 4,000 m

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is Dimensions information for the Vityaz DT-10PM Russian All Terrain Carrier of the System:
The Height, Overall is 3.325.
The Length, Overall is 14.21.
The Width, Overall is 3.1.
The Width, Track is 0.96.

Here is Automotive information for the Vityaz DT-10PM Russian All Terrain Carrier:
The Engine Power is 800.
The Range, Cruising is 700.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 44.
The Speed, Maximum Swim is 5.
The Fording Depth is Amphibious vehicle.
The Engine Name is YaMZ-847.10.
The Engine Type is Diesel, water cooled.
The Vertical Step is 1.
The Trench Crossing is 4.
The Angle of Approach is 30.
The Side Slope is 22.
The Gradient is 39 (EST).
The Brakes is Air.
The Electrical System is 24.

