This document describes the Gibka-S Russian Self-Propelled Very Short-Range Air Defense (VSHORAD) System .

The Gibka-S Russian Self-Propelled Very Short-Range Air Defense (VSHORAD) is a new self-propelled mobile air defense system developed by Russian state-owned defense enterprise Machine-Building Design Bureau (KBM).

The VSHORAD system can engage aircraft, helicopters, cruise missiles, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and precision weapons. The autonomous 4×4 platform can be operated during the night and in difficult weather conditions. 


The 9А332 combat can accommodate a crew of four, including two MANPADS anti-aircraft gunners, a commander, and a driver. The combat vehicle also features a missile remote control unit and an electro-optical tracking and targeting system.

The armored vehicle is capable of launching Russian-made Igla-S and Verba MANPADS missiles. It can carry four ready-to-launch missiles loaded on the missile launcher and four ready-to-load missiles.

The Gibka-S VSHORAD system also comprises a commander’s reconnaissance and combat control vehicle (CRCV) for battery commander. The CRCV is intended for automated control of the MANPADS sections mounted on the combat vehicle.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is Missile (Option #1) information for the Gibka-S Russian Self-Propelled Very Short-Range Air Defense (VSHORAD) System  of the Main Weapon System :
The Name  is 9K333 Verba Missile .
The Length  is 1.64 m.
The Diameter  is 0.07 m.
The Weight  is 12 kg.
The Engine  is Solid Fuel Rocket .
The Warhead Type  is High Explosive Blast Fragmentation.
The Warhead Weight  is 1.5 kg.
The Range of Fire  is 6 km.
The Flight Ceiling  is 4.5 km.
The Guidance System  is Three-channel optical seeker (ultraviolet, near-infrared, mid-infrared).

Here is Missile (Option #2) information for the Gibka-S Russian Self-Propelled Very Short-Range Air Defense (VSHORAD) System  of the Main Weapon System :
The Name  is 9M342 Igla-S missile.
The Length  is 1.635 m.
The Diameter  is 72 mm.
The Weight  is 11.7 kg.
The Warhead Type  is Directed-energy blast fragmentation.
The Warhead Weight  is 2.5 kg.
The Fuze Type  is Delayed impact, magnetic and grazing.
The Maximum Speed  is 570 m/s.
The Range of Fire  is 6,000 m.
The Maximum Altitude  is 3,500 m.
The Guidance System  is Passive IR homing device and night vision (operating in the medium IR range).

