This document describes the Dragon Runner 20 American Small Unmanned Ground Robot.

Dragon Runner 20
Small Unmanned Ground Robot
Small and lightweight, yet rugged and feature-packed, the Dragon Runner 20 (DR-20) is a highly specialized and mobile robot designed to provide situational awareness, safety and support for reconnaissance, security, inspection and IED missions.

The mission dictates exactly how the DR-20 will be used – making it the perfect choice for defense and security applications especially in congested urban settings. Whether it’s at a security checkpoint, deep inside a sewer or drainpipe or tasked with an EOD mission, the DR-20 supports a wide range of scenarios. At 20 pounds, the DR-20 can be hand carried by one person and easily deployed.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the Dragon Runner 20 American Small Unmanned Ground Robot:
The Dragon Runner 10 is Dragon Runner 10
Micro Unmanned Ground Robot 
The Dragon Runner 10® (DR-10) is a lightweight, expandable robot that offers protection and support to small unit, dismounted operations. Designed to provide situational awareness by ‘scouting out’ while the operator remains at safe distance, the DR-10 keeps military forces and first responders away from dangerous situations.

At approximately 10 pounds the DR-10 can be hand carried or easily transported inside a rucksack—it can even be thrown!  This compact and durable robot is operated with an easy-to-use remote controller. Its robust design allows it to perform in the most challenging environments and adverse weather conditions.

Whether it’s under a car or deep inside a sewer or drainpipe, the DR-10 has the dexterity to go where personnel can’t.  From unmanned, reconnaissance missions to delivering remote sensors and placing counter-IED charges, these micro robots protect people, assets and save lives..

Here is System information for the Dragon Runner 20 American Small Unmanned Ground Robot:
The Alternative Designation is Dragon Runner 20.
The Type is Small Unmanned Ground Robot.
The Manufacturer is QinetiQ North America.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Communications is On-board microphone.
The Environmental is IP 65 rated.
The Cameras is Four (4) front and rear (day and night
capable); left and right (day only);
quad video display.
The Controller is Dragon Runner 20 wearable
controller, UC-LITE.
The Lift Capacity is 4.5 kg.
The Payloads (optional) is Disruptors, manipulator arm, RSTA
cameras, two-way audio, fiber
control tether, Hazmat sensors.

Here is Dimensions information for the Dragon Runner 20 American Small Unmanned Ground Robot:
The Length is 89 cm.
The Width is 40 cm.
The Height is 54 cm.
The Weight is 9-11.8  kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Dragon Runner 20 American Small Unmanned Ground Robot:
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is INA.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 6 Km/h.
The Operational Range is 2,100 ft (650+m) Line-of-Sight.
The Endurance is 3-4 hrs (mission dependent).

Here is Protection information for the Dragon Runner 20 American Small Unmanned Ground Robot:
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is INA.

