This document describes the Mi-17 (Hip H) Russian Medium Transport Helicopter.

The Mil Mi-17 (NATO reporting name: Hip) is a Soviet/Russian helicopter in production at two factories in Kazan and Ulan-Ude. It is known as the Mi-8M series in Russian service. It is a medium twin-turbine transport helicopter. There are also armed gunship versions. The improved version of the Mi-8 is the Mi-17 Hip multipurpose helicopter, also known as the Mi-8TMB. It is specifically designed for improved capabilities at high altitudes and in hot weather conditions.

The Mi-17 is identifiable from the Mi-8 by the additional air filters on the turbine air intakes, as well as the left-hand side mounted tail rotor, required by the more powerful TB-3-117A turboshaft engines it is fitted with. The Mi-17 can climb at the rate of 8m/s. The maximum and cruise speed of the helicopter is 250km/h and 225 km/h respectively. The range of the helicopter is 465 km and the service ceiling is 6,000m. The aircraft weighs around 7,489 kg and its maximum take-off weight is 13,000 kg.


The Mi-8/17 has given rise to a bewildering range of versions that fulfill a wide variety of specialized roles. Dedicated combat support variants include airborne reserve command posts, electronic countermeasures (with onboard jammers), Communications intelligence, and command relay. Other versions carry out delivery of fuel to front-line units, photo-reconnaissance, artillery fire-correction, reconnaissance, VIP transport, minelaying, and mine clearing.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bangladesh, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon, CFE Treaty, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Croatia, Cuba, Djibouti, Ecuador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ghana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Libya, Mexico, Mongolia, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Pakistan, Peru, Poland, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Senegal, Serbia, Slovakia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syria, Tajikistan, Uganda, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Zambia.

Here is Variants information for the Mi-17 (Hip H) Russian Medium Transport Helicopter:
The Mi-17/Mi-8MT/Mi-8MTV/Mi-17V Hip-H is These designations refer to the mid-life upgrade given to the original Mi-8 (see "Description," above). Those with a V designation are the armed configuration and are equipped with bolt-on armor on the side and behind the pilot's seat, ASO-3 and ASO-2 chaff/flare countermeasures system (consisting of three banks of launchers on each side and underneath the tailboom), Hot Brick IR jammers and IR suppressors over the engine exhausts. It was first shown in August 1989.
The Mi-17P is This is an improved electronic countermeasures (ECM) helicopter fitted for electronic warfare, communications jamming and intercept..
The Mi-17PI is Similar to Mi-17P, but with one D-band jammer..
The Mi-17PG is Similar to Mi-17P, but with H/I-band pulse and continuous wave jamming system..
The Mi-17Z-II is This is an electronic warfare variant used by Czech and Slovak air forces. It is reportedly either an airborne early warning (AEW) or electronic warfare (EW) version..
The Mi-17MD is This refers to the current Kazan production model. It is similar to the standard Mi-17 but has its passenger capacity increased to 40 and is fitted with built-in rear ramp that can rise to meet truncated clam-shell doors..
The Mi-17KF is This is a new variant jointly developed by Kazan, Mil and Kelowna Flightcraft..
The Mi-171 is This Mi-17 variant is fitted with TV3-117VM engines (2,070 shaft hp) for improved lifting capability and performance..
The Mi-171M/Mi-171A2 is This is a new variant announced by Russian Helicopters in June 2010. It features a Klimov VK-2500PS-03 turboshaft engine, with full authority digital engine control (FADEC), modernized auxiliary power unit and main gearbox, as well as improved swashplate, main rotor head and transmission. A new X-shaped tail rotor and composite rotors are fitted..
The Mi-17M/Mi-171V is This is the current production version from Kazan helicopters. It is nearly identical to Mi-171 except that it has options for armament, radar, flotation gear or fire-fighting equipment..
The Mi-172 is This version is also similar to Mi-171, but is equipped for civilian flight operations. It was developed under a July 2002 agreement among the Kazan plant, BAE Systems and Kelowna Flightcraft of Canada..
The Mi-17 Pratap is This is the Indian air force designation for its Mi-17 aircraft..
The Mi-17-1VA is This is an ambulance variant developed for Russian Ministry of Health for civilian disaster relief. It is equipped for in-flight emergency treatment..
The Mi-17V5 is This variant is equipped with a full glass cockpit, advanced avionics and navigation systems. It has onboard weather radar, state of the art autopilot and is compatible with third-generation night-vision goggles. A powerful winch is fitted for disaster relief operations..
The Mi-171E is This helicopter is powered by VK-2500-03 engines and has a Safir 5K/G Mi auxiliary power plant to support high altitude operations..
The Mi-171E2 is This is an improved variant of the Mi-171E with VK-2500PS-03 high-altitude engines with increased power; full authority digital engine control (FADEC); new main rotor made of polymeric composite materials with an improved profile; an X-shaped tail rotor similar to that on the Mi-171A2; and an upgraded fuselage, modified tail and keel beams and a larger stabilizer..
The Mi-171SH Storm is This is a modernized combat transport variant with upgraded engines; new rotor system with an improved profile composite main rotor and X-shaped tail rotor; and the latest variant of the President-S self-defense system. It features titanium and Kevlar armor protection..

Here is System information for the Mi-17 (Hip H) Russian Medium Transport Helicopter:
The Alternative Designation is Mi-17; Mil Mi-17; Hip H.
The Manufactuer is Kazan Helicopter Plant
Ulan-Ude Aviation Plant.
The Primary Function is Armed assault-transport.
The Type is Medium twin-turbine transport helicopter.
The In Service is 1975-Present.
The Crew is 3 (2x pilots, 1x flight engineer).
The Blades, Main Rotor is 5.
The Blades, Tail Rotor is 3.
The Day/Night Capable is The Mi-8 is equipped with instruments and avionics allowing operation in day, night, and instrument meteorological conditions..
The All Weather Capable is The Mi-8 is equipped with instruments and avionics allowing operation in day, night, and instrument meteorological conditions..
The Takeoff or Landing Limitations is INA.
The Vertical Climb Rate is 9.
The Number of Hard Points is 4.
The Standard Payload is HIP: 24 troops, or 3,000 kg internal or external loads on 4x hardpoints..
The Landing Gear is Fixed main gear struts run down and out from attachment points on the upper, rear fuselage. A second strut holds the wheel well away from the lower fuselage. The two-wheel nose gear is fitted under the fuselage just behind the cockpit.

Here is Dimensions information for the Mi-17 (Hip H) Russian Medium Transport Helicopter:
The Length, with Rotors Turning is 25.2.
The Length, Fuelage is 18.2.
The Width is 2.5.
The Height is 5.65.
The Main Rotor Diameter is 21.3.
The Tail Rotor Diameter is 3.9.
The Cargo Compartment, Length is 5.3.
The Cargo Compartment, Width is 2.3.
The Cargo Compartment, Height is 1.8.
The Weight, Maximum Gross is 13,000.
The Weight, Normal Takeoff is 11,100.
The Weight, Empty is 7,489.

Here is Automotive information for the Mi-17 (Hip H) Russian Medium Transport Helicopter:
The Engine Name is 2 x TV3-117VM.
The Engine Type is Medium twin-turbine.
The Engine Power is 1,900.
The Fuel, Internal is 445 liters.
The Fuel, Internal Aux Tank is 915 liters ea.
The Fuel, External Fuel Tank is 45 liters in port tank,
680 liters in starboard tank.
The Speed, Maximum is 250.
The Speed, Average is 240.
The Service Ceiling is 4,500.
The Range, Maximum Load is 350.
The Range, Normal Load is 460.
The Range, with Auxilery Fuel is 950.
The Service Ceiling, Service is 6,000.
The Service Ceiling,Hover (out of ground effect) is 800.
The Service Ceiling,Hover (in ground effect) is 1,900.
The Vertical Climb Rate is 9.
The Standard Payload is HIP H: 24 troops, or 3,000 kg internal or external loads on 4x hardpoints..

Here is Door Mounted Gun information for the Mi-17 (Hip H) Russian Medium Transport Helicopter:
The Note is Loaded combat troops can fire personal weapons through windows from inside cabin..

Here is Rocket System information for the Mi-17 (Hip H) Russian Medium Transport Helicopter of the Wing Mounted Weapons:
The Name is UB-32 (rocket pod).
The Type is 57 mm, reusable, 32-salvo rocket pod.
The Length, Launcher is 2,080.
The Diameter, Launcher is 464.
The Basic Load for the UB-32 Rocket Pod is 4, one on each hardpoint.
The Number of Rockets in each UB-32 Rocket Pod is 32.

Here is Rocket information for the Mi-17 (Hip H) Russian Medium Transport Helicopter of the Wing Mounted Weapons:
The Name is S-5 Rockets.
The Type is Rocket.
The Length, Rocket is 2,080.
The Diameter, Rocket is 481.
The Weight Empty is 103.
The Weight Loaded is 264.
The Warhead Types is produced in a variety of sub-types with different warheads, including HEAT anti-armour (S-5K), high-explosive fragmentation (S-5M/MO), smoke, and incendiary rounds.
The Maximum Effective Range is 3-4 km depending on the warhead and fuze.
The Basic Load is 32 S-5 Rockets per UB-32 Rocket Pod.

Here is Fire Control information for the Mi-17 (Hip H) Russian Medium Transport Helicopter:
The Fire Control System Type is INA.
The Fire Control Radar is INA.
The Digital or Analog Cockpit is INA.
The Direct Fire Control is Yes.
The Laser Designator is INA.
The Automated Helmet is INA.
The Position Location System is Yes.
The Weather Radar is Type 8A-813.
The Navigation is DISS-32-90 Doppler navigation under tailboom.

Here is Protection information for the Mi-17 (Hip H) Russian Medium Transport Helicopter:
The Armor Type is Bolt-on.
The Fuselage is semi-monocoque pod and boom fuselage has a nearly stepless front.
The Cockpit Glass is large, five-section windshield and lower nose windows.
The Stealth Properties is No.
The Heat Signature Reduction is IR over engine exhausts.
The Add on Armor is Available.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The EW is INA.
The EW Counter Measures/CCM is INA.
The Counter Measures (Chaff/Flares) is Yes,ASO-3 and ASO-2 chaff/flare countermeasures system.
The Jammer is Hot Brick IR.

