This document describes the Type 84A Chinese Heavy Mechanized Bridging (HMB) System.

The Type 84A Chinese Heavy Mechanized Bridging (HMB) System can hold tracked armored vehicles weighing up to 50 metric tons on five modular spans. It can handle wheeled vehicles with a maximum axle load of 13 metric tons. The bridge can span a gap of up to 50 m.

When the bridge is being deployed, the truck backs up to the gap, drops hydraulic stabilizers on either side of the rear, and opens the bridge over the obstacle to be crossed. Outriggers are then opened and extended below the bridge.

The bridge sections are carried and placed into position by an 8 x 8 or 6 x 6 wheeled vehicle. Each span is 10.5 m long. Up to five can be coupled together.

The system can be used in water as deep as 3.5 m. The bridge can also be connected with various types of pontoon bridges.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China, Myanmar, Tanzania, Zimbabwe.

Here is Variants information for the Type 84A Chinese Heavy Mechanized Bridging (HMB) System:
The 60T HMB is The 60T HMB from NORINCO is a truck mounted bridge designed to conduct deliberate crossings of dry and wet gaps. One set consists of a total of five vehicles, each of which can transport and launch one bridge. This set has a total crew of 12, of which seven are required to position each span..
The Type 84 Armored Vehicle Launched Bridge (AVLB) is The Type 84 AVLB launches a bridge with a weight capacity of 40,000 kg, but more recent Chinese MBTs, for example the Type 98 and Type 99, weigh far more than the bridgeʼs current weight capacity..

Here is System information for the Type 84A Chinese Heavy Mechanized Bridging (HMB) System:
The Alternative Designation is Type 84A.
The Type is Heavy Mechanized Bridging (HMB) System.
The Manufacturer is China Shipbuilding Trading Co., Shanghai, China; 
China North Industries Corp. (NORINCO), Beijing China (Modified HMB).
The Crew is 13.
The Chassis is The bridge sections are carried and placed into position by an 8×8 or a 6×6 forward-control type vehicle and the general laying sequence and operation are much the same as those for the Russian TMM truck-mounted Treadway bridge system..
The Emplacement Time is The deployment time of the Type 84A HMB depends on a number of factors but the contractor is stating six to eight minutes for a single span and 45–60 minutes for a complete span..
The Displacement Time is INA.

Here is Bridging System information for the Type 84A Chinese Heavy Mechanized Bridging (HMB) System:
The Bridge Length is 10.5 m.
The Bridge Width is 3.8 m.
The Operational Depth is The Type 84A can be used in water up to a depth of 3.5 m and Type 84A bridges can also be connected with various types of pontoon bridges.
The Maximum Bridging Gap is Each bridge span is 10.5 m long and up to five of these can be coupled together to span a maximum gap of up to 50 m..
The Maximum Weight Capacity, Tracked Vehicles is 50,000 kg.
The Maximum Weight Capacity, Wheeled Vehicles is 13,000 kg (Axle Loaded).
The Note is When the bridge is being deployed, the truck backs up to the gap, drops hydraulic stabilizers on either side of the rear and opens the bridge over the obstacle to be crossed. Outriggers are then opened and extended below the bridge..

Here is Dimensions information for the Type 84A Chinese Heavy Mechanized Bridging (HMB) System:
The Length is 9.879 m.
The Width is 3.27 m.
The Height is INA.
The Weight is INA.

Here is Automotive information for the Type 84A Chinese Heavy Mechanized Bridging (HMB) System:
The Note is The bridge sections are carried and placed into position by an 8×8 or a 6×6 forward-control type vehicle.

Here is Protection information for the Type 84A Chinese Heavy Mechanized Bridging (HMB) System:
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is INA.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

