This document describes the M19 American Anti-Tank Blast Mine.

The M19 is a large square plastic-cased United States anti-tank blast mine. Intended to replace the M15 mine, the design dates from the mid-1960s and contains only two metal components: the copper detonator capsule and a stainless steel firing pin which weighs 2.86 grams. It is a minimum metal mine, which makes it very difficult to detect after it has been emplaced. This mine is produced under license in Chile, South Korea, and Turkey. A copy is produced in Iran. It is found in Afghanistan, Angola, Chad, Chile, Cyprus, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, South Korea, Lebanon, Western Sahara, and Zambia.

U.S. stocks of the mine were approximately 74,000 before the 1990 Gulf war and had fallen to 63,000 by 2002.

An inert version of the mine intended for training purposes (called the M80) is also produced.

The plastic casing of the mine is usually dark olive green and has a large central fuze well. Normally it has a carrying handle on one side. The mine is normally fitted with the M606 fuze which has an arming switch with two settings, safe and Armed. These markings are either painted in yellow or embossed into the plastic. When the switch is set to "A" and the safety clip is removed, the mine will detonate if a vehicle drives over it. The firing mechanism is triggered by a Belleville spring which flips the firing pin downwards into the stab detonator, setting off the adjacent booster charge and main explosive filling.

The mine is also fitted with two secondary fuze wells which allow anti-handling devices to be fitted e.g. the M1 pull fuze or M5 "mouse-trap" anti-lift fuze. Either or both of the secondary fuze wells on an M19 mine may be fitted with an anti-handling device.

It is worth noting that a minefield containing M19s is usually protected by various anti-personnel mines such as the M14 and M16 bounding mine.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Afghanistan, Angola, Chad, Chile, Cyprus, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jordan, Lebanon, South Korea (Republic of Korea), Zambia.

Here is System information for the M19 American Anti-Tank Blast Mine:
The Alternate Designation is M19.
The Type is Anti-Tank Blast Mine.
The Manufacturer is INA.
The Emplacement Method is manual.
The Length is 332.
The Width is 332.
The Height is 94.
The Armor Penetration (mm)/ Kill Mechanism is Blast.
The Effective Range (meter) is 1.
The Detectability/ Composition is difficult with hand held detectors,
plastic.
The Anti-Handling is Yes.
The Fuze Type/Self Neutralize is pressure (182 kg).
The Explosive Type & Weight/Total Weight (kg) is COMP B
9.5
Total: 12.6.
The Operating Pressure is 118 to 226 kg (although possibly as low as 90 kg).

