This document describes the Dragon Runner 10 American Micro Unmanned Ground Robot.

The Dragon Runner 10 (DR-10) is a lightweight, expandable robot that offers protection and support to small unit, dismounted operations. Designed to provide situational awareness by ‘scouting out’ while the operator remains at safe distance, the DR-10 keeps military forces and first responders away from dangerous situations.

At approximately 10 pounds the DR-10 can be hand carried or easily transported inside a rucksack—it can even be thrown!  This compact and durable robot is operated with an easy-to-use remote controller. Its robust design allows it to perform in the most challenging environments and adverse weather conditions.

Whether it’s under a car or deep inside a sewer or drainpipe, the DR-10 has the dexterity to go where personnel can’t.  From unmanned, reconnaissance missions to delivering remote sensors and placing counter-IED charges, these micro robots protect people, assets and save lives.

Features:
*Provides real-time situational awareness
*Small enough to fit inside an assault pack
*Light enough to be hand carried
*Tough enough to be thrown
&Operates in adverse weather conditions

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the Dragon Runner 10 American Micro Unmanned Ground Robot:
The Dragon Runner 20 is Dragon Runner 20
Small Unmanned Ground Robot
Small and lightweight, yet rugged and feature-packed, the Dragon Runner 20 (DR-20) is a highly specialized and mobile robot designed to provide situational awareness, safety and support for reconnaissance, security, inspection and IED missions.

The mission dictates exactly how the DR-20 will be used – making it the perfect choice for defense and security applications especially in congested urban settings. Whether it’s at a security checkpoint, deep inside a sewer or drainpipe or tasked with an EOD mission, the DR-20 supports a wide range of scenarios. At 20 pounds, the DR-20 can be hand carried by one person and easily deployed..

Here is System information for the Dragon Runner 10 American Micro Unmanned Ground Robot:
The Alternative Designation is Dragon Runner 10.
The Type is Micro Unmanned Ground Robot.
The Manufacturer is QinetiQ North America.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Communications is Vehicle on-board microphone.
The Environmental is IP 65 rated.
The Cameras is (2) Front and rear, day and night.
The Controller is Dragon Runner 10 wearable
controller.
The Payloads (optional) is Manipulator arm, hazmat sensors.

Here is Dimensions information for the Dragon Runner 10 American Micro Unmanned Ground Robot:
The Length is 44 cm.
The Width is 33 cm.
The Height is 18 cm.
The Weight is 5 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Dragon Runner 10 American Micro Unmanned Ground Robot:
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is INA.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 4.8 Km/h.
The Operational Range is Greater than 1,970 ft (600m) Line-of Sight when equipped with external
antennas..
The Endurance is 2-3 hours (mission dependent).

Here is Protection information for the Dragon Runner 10 American Micro Unmanned Ground Robot:
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is INA.

