This document describes the Shershen (Hornet) Belarusian Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM).

The Shershen (Russian: Шершень; English: Hornet) is a Belarusian third-generation anti-tank guided missile (ATGM), based on Ukrainian ATGM Skif but reportedly with additional capabilities. Designed to defeat modern armored vehicles, protected objects (such as bunkers, pillboxes, earth-and-timber emplacements), and low-speed low-altitude targets (helicopters, UAVs).

The "Shershen" base version consists of a tripod, a universal combat module, an anti-tank guided missile, a guidance device (PN-S), and remote control, which allows the control of the unit from up to 100 m (with a wire channel) and up to 300 m (with radio). The two-man crew's combat task is to assemble "Shershen", find the target, and launch. The pre-launch procedures, which include missile installation, PN-S connection, and unit switch-on, take less than 2 minutes to complete. Once the missile is fired, the operator controls the "Shershen" and corrects the aim, if necessary, using the joystick on the remote control.

Shershen is designed to destroy armored vehicles equipped with explosive reactive armor (ERA) and can attack stationary and moving targets. Shershen also has an automated fire and forget targeting mode that doesn't require manual tracking of a target.

All modern armored targets can be destroyed, irrespective of where the missile hits them, using the РК-2 (cal. 130 mm) and Б-2М (cal. 152 mm) guided missiles. The Р-2В missile (can be used with "Shershen-Q" and unified with ATGM "Barier-B" ) extends the maximum range to 7,500m. The ability to use different types of missiles without any system modification, in addition to a wide spectrum of targets makes it possible to consider this system not only as an ATGM but as a mobile defense-assault fire system for infantry support up to battalion level.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Belarus, Georgia, Nigeria, Russian Federation, Turkmenistan.

Here is Variants information for the Shershen (Hornet) Belarusian Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The Shershen is Base Version..
The Shershen-L is Light version (maximum range up to 2.5 km)..
The Shershen-D is Version with two firing channels..
The Shershen-Q is Version with two firing channels and auto lifting system (or without auto lift) for installation on a vehicle..

Here is System information for the Shershen (Hornet) Belarusian Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The Alternative Designation is Shershen.
The Type is Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM).
The Manufacturer is CJSC "SRPC".
The Shershen Complex is The Shershen “complex” is made up of a collapsible tripod, a box-shaped control system, the launcher rail, the launch tube, and the command launch unit combining the TV guidance and modular thermal sights..
The Crew is 2.
The Displacement Time is INA.
The Emplacement Time is INA.

Here is Dimensions information for the Shershen (Hornet) Belarusian Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The Note is See Main Weapon System.

Here is Automotive information for the Shershen (Hornet) Belarusian Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The Prime Mover Required is No.
The Man Portable is Yes.

Here is Launcher information for the Shershen (Hornet) Belarusian Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM) of the Main Weapon System:
The Name is Shershen.
The Type is Anti-Tank Guided Missile Launcher.
The Launcher Length is INA.
The Launcher Width is INA.
The Launcher Weight is 28 kg.
The Control panel Weight is 12 kg.
The Sight Weight is 16 kg.

Here is Missile information for the Shershen (Hornet) Belarusian Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM) of the Main Weapon System:
The Name is RK-2S.
The Type is Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM).
The Missile Length is 1,360 mm.
The Missile Diameter is 130 mm.
The Fin Span is INA.
The Missile Weight (in container) is 29.5 kg.
The Warhead Type is Tandem HEAT / Fragmentation.
The Warhead Weight is 8 kg.
The Guidance System is Laser-guided.
The Effective Firing Range is 7.5 km.
The Note is The missile travels for 24 seconds at maximum range..

Here is Fire Control information for the Shershen (Hornet) Belarusian Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is Yes.
The Guidance System is Laser-guided.
The Direct Fire is Yes.
The Indirect Fire is No.
The Automatic Target Tracking is Yes.

