This document describes the Tomahawk H16-V12 Chinese Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The Tomahawk H16-V12 Chinese Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) is used for multiple applications (36 times zoom reconnaissance, security control, smoke bombs, detonation bombs, tear grenades and other grenade launch, missile launch, air capture, air Shouting, air lighting, air explosive disposal).

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is System information for the Tomahawk H16-V12 Chinese Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is Tomahawk H16-V12.
The Type is Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is Harwar.
The Autonomy is Semi-Autonomous.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Payload Capacity is 25 kg.
The Intelligent Flight Capability is Ground imitation flight, pointing flight, pointing task, breakpoint continued flight, AB point one-key take-off and landing, one-key return, route planning, multi-task management.
The Omnidirectional Obstacle Avoidance is 720° obstacle avoidance, sensing range less than 200 meters.
The Satellite Positioning is Beidou, GPS, GLONASS, RTK Samsung seven band.
The Positioning Accuracy is Horizontal: ±0.02m  Vertical: ±0.05 m.
The Safety Protection is Anti-electromagnetic interference Triple redundancy protection, Low electricity return, Low voltage return, Propeller broke protect..
The Launching System is Vertical Take-Off and Landing (VTOL).
The Recovery System is Vertical Take-Off and Landing (VTOL).

Here is Dimensions information for the Tomahawk H16-V12 Chinese Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is 1,530 mm.
The Width is 1,750 mm.
The Height is 830 mm.
The Maximum Takeoff Weight is INA.

Here is Automotive information for the Tomahawk H16-V12 Chinese Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Battery Power.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 64.8 km/h.
The Cruising Speed is INA.
The Service Ceiling is 5,834 m.
The Flight Radius is 15 km.
The All-Weather is Wind resistance level 7, rain proof, dustproof, adapt to -40-85° environment..
The Endurance is 60 min.

Here is Armament information for the Tomahawk H16-V12 Chinese Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Note is Multiple applications (36 times zoom reconnaissance, security control, smoke bombs, detonation bombs, tear grenades and other grenade launch, missile launch, air capture, air Shouting, air lighting, air explosive disposal)..

