This document describes the Yitian Chinese 6x6 Self-Propelled Short-Range Air-Defense System.

The Yitian is a short-range air-defense (SHORAD) system built by China for the domestic and export market. Its primary mission is to provide low-altitude protection for armored units against fixed-wing aircraft, helicopters, unmanned aerial vehicles and other airborne threats. The manufacturer also claims the system has an anti-cruise missile capability.

The system consists of eight canister-launched TY-90 infrared homing missiles and two sensor systems mounted on a turret. The radar systems include a rotating antenna acquisition radar on top with an advanced electro-optical package beneath it. The three-dimensional X-band tracking radar can be folded down for transport.

The E/O package includes day and thermal sights, laser rangefinder and an automatic target tracker. The E/O system has a detection range of 7 mi (12 km) and tracking range of 6 mi (10 km), according to the manufacturer.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is System information for the Yitian Chinese 6x6 Self-Propelled Short-Range Air-Defense System:
The Alternate Designation is Yitian is a short-range air-defense (SHORAD).
The Type is Short-Range Air-Defense (SHORAD).
The Crew is 4 (Commander, two
Operators and a Driver).
The Chassis is The Yitian can be mounted to a variety of vehicles.
The Displacement Time is INA.
The Emplacement Time is INA.
The Maximum Effective Range is 6,000.
The Minimum Effective Range is 300.
The Effective Kill Altitude is 15-4,000.
The Basic Combat Load is INA.
The Fire on the Move is INA.
The Fuse Type is Laser Proximity Fuze.
The Single-Shot Probability of Kill is 80.
The Launchers is 8.
The Notes is Norinco suggests that a Yitian battery should consist of a command vehicle, six
launchers, two missile resupply vehicles, a missile testing and maintenance vehicle
and a mechanical/electronic maintenance vehicle..

Here is Dimensions information for the Yitian Chinese 6x6 Self-Propelled Short-Range Air-Defense System:
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Weight, Combat is 16.

Here is WZ551 Chinese Armored Personnel Carrier (APC) information for the Yitian Chinese 6x6 Self-Propelled Short-Range Air-Defense System of the Automotive:
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is 8-cylinder, turbo-charged, air-cooled diesel.
The Engine Power is 320.
The Crusing Range is 800.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 100.
The Speed, Average Cross is 85.
The Fording Depth is amphibious.
The WZ551 Length is 6.63.
The WZ551 Width is 2.8.
The WZ551 Height is 2.8.
The WZ551 Weight is 11,339.81.
The Propellers is 2.

Here is TBR-142 VHF Radio information for the Yitian Chinese 6x6 Self-Propelled Short-Range Air-Defense System of the Communication:
The VHF FM Transceiver is Yes, TBR-142(I).
The VHF Range is 1 to 50.
The Megahertz is 40.000 to 59.975.
The Output Power is 1 to 0.3.
The Power is 12V Ni-Ca Rechargeable Battery or external 12V DC power source.
The Dimensions is 217x135x58.
The Weight is 2.7.
The Antennas is 3 Total: a 1.3m whip antenna, a 0.3m short antenna, and a 10m wire antenna.
The Proliferated is Widely with Artillery/Gun/Missile/Reconnaissance/C2 Units.
The Control Device is TBR-142(II).
The Multi-function Field Phone is TBR-142(IIID).
The Anti-Aircraft Control Unit is TBR-142(IIIG).
The ZXY88-200 C2 Capable is Yes.
The Messaging is Limited Capability.
The Amplifier is Available.
The Physical Conditions Limitations is Terrain and Weather favorable.

Here is Protection information for the Yitian Chinese 6x6 Self-Propelled Short-Range Air-Defense System:
The Note is This WEG sheet is specific to the Yitian TY90 Chinese Short-Range Air-Defense (SHORAD) and not the vehicle transporting it..
The Hull Armor is .
The Turret Armor is .
The Applique Armor is .
The Explosive Reactive Armor is .
The Active Protection System is .
The Mien Clearing is .
The Slef-Entrenching Blade is .
The NBC Protection is Yes, on WMZ-551.
The Smoke Equipment is Yes, on WMZ-551.
The C4I Suite is Yes, on WMZ-551.

Here is Armament (Titian SHORAD) information for the Yitian Chinese 6x6 Self-Propelled Short-Range Air-Defense System:
The Type is Anti-Aircraft Missile System.
The Guidance System is All-Aspect Infared Guidance System.
The Seeker Field of View is Launched even if humidity or smoke obscures the target from the seeker.
The Self-Destruct Time is .
The Traverse Range is .
The Travere Left is .
The Traverse Right is .
The Rate of Fire, Burst is .
The Rate of Fire, Sustain is .
The Transport/Launch Canisters is Two banks
of four on either side of the turret..
The Missile Container Weight is 23.

Here is Ammunition (Titian SHORAD) information for the Yitian Chinese 6x6 Self-Propelled Short-Range Air-Defense System:
The Name is CATIC TY-90 Fire-and-Forget SAMs.
The Munition Type is HE, Frangible Rod.
The Location is Roof of the Vehicle in two banks of four on either side of the Turret.
The Length is 1.9.
The Diameter is 90.
The Warhead is 3.
The Fuze Type is Laser Proximity Fuze.
The Detonation Mechanism is Impact / Proximity.
The Engine Propellant is Solide-Fuel Rocket Motor.
The Missile Speed is 2.2.
The Max Range is 6,000.
The Min Range is 300.
The Effective Slant Kill Range is 500-6,000.
The Kill Radius is 4.
The Effective Elevation is 15-3,962.4.
The Flight Ceiling is 6.
The Effective Kill Altitude is 15-4,000.
The Guidance System is ImIR IR.
The IR Seekers is Yes.
The Missle Velocity is 2.2.
The 60-Deg Off-Boresight Capability is Yes.
The Indium Antimonide (InSb) Detector is Yes.
The Mid-Course Guidance is Yes.

Here is Fire Control System information for the Yitian Chinese 6x6 Self-Propelled Short-Range Air-Defense System of the Fire Control / Radar:
The Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is Yes.
The Direct Fire is Yes.
The Thermal Day Sensors is Yes.
The Thermal Night Sensors is Yes.
The Laser Rangefinder is Yes.
The Automatic Target Tracker is Yes.
The Tarket Tracking Range is 10.
The E/O Detection Range is 12.
The Operational Modes is Two Modes, Mode 1: Company Command, Mode 2: Individual Vehicle Mode..
The System Reaction Time is 6-8.

Here is Radar information for the Yitian Chinese 6x6 Self-Propelled Short-Range Air-Defense System of the Fire Control / Radar:
The Type is Rotating Antenna Acquisition Radar.
The Frequency/Band is 3D X-Band.
The Radar Acquisition (Fighter Target) is 18.
The Radar Acquisition (Cruise Missile Target) is 8.
The Radar Tracking Range is 10.
The Advanced Electro-Optical Range is 12.
The Number of Targets is INA.

