This document describes the Delta IV-Class (Project BDRM Delfin Class) Russian Nuclear-Powered Ballistic Missile Submarine.

Delta IV Class (Project BDRM Delfin Class) Russian Nuclear-Powered Ballistic Missile Submarine. Seven Delta IV-class submarines were built; all are still in service in the Russian Navy. The submarines, based at the Sayda Guba Naval Base, operate in the Northern Fleet. The Severodvinsk Shipyard built these vessels between 1981 and 1992. The last vessel was K-407 Novomoskovsk.

The design of the Delta IV class resembles that of the Delta III class and constitutes a double-hulled configuration with missile silos housed in the inner hull.

The submarines have an operational diving depth of 320 meters (1,050 ft), with a maximum depth of 400 meters (1,300 ft). The propulsion system allows speeds of 24 knots (44 km/h) submerged using two VM-4 pressure water reactors rated at 180 MW. It features two turbines of type GT3A-365 rated at 27.5 MW.

On 29 December 2011, a shipyard fire broke out in the drydock where a Delta IV-class vessel named Ekaterinburg was being serviced. It was reported that the fire managed to spread to the submarine, that all weapons were disembarked from the submarine and the nuclear reactor was shut down beforehand. On 1 July 2019, a fatal fire occurred on the small special mission submarine Losharik during operations in the Northern Fleet's training area west of Kola Bay. There was speculation that the Losharik's mothership was present, possibly the Belgorod, Podmoskovye, or Orenburg.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is Variants information for the Delta IV-Class (Project BDRM Delfin Class) Russian Nuclear-Powered Ballistic Missile Submarine:
The Delta I (Project 667B Murena) is No Longer in Service. The Delta-class submarines could deploy on alert patrols in the marginal ice-seas of the Soviet Arctic littoral, including the Norwegian and Barents Seas. Consequently, unlike their predecessors, they no longer needed to pass through Western SOSUS sonar barriers to come within range of their targets. To improve the accuracy of the missiles, the Delta I-class submarines carry the Tobol-B navigation system and the Cyclone-B satellite navigation system.

After authorization of the development of the class in 1965, the first Delta I, K-279, was commissioned into the Soviet Northern Fleet on 22 December 1972. A total of 18 submarines of this class were built, and all served Soviet Navy, under the designation Project 667B Murena (eel).

In 1991, nine Delta I-class submarines were still in active service. Their decommissioning began in 1994, with the removal of the missile compartments scheduled by 1997. All submarines of this class were taken out of service by 1998 and were scrapped by 2005..
The Delta II (Project 667BD Murena-M) is No Longer in Service. The Delta II-class submarine was a large ballistic missile submarine designed to remedy shortcomings in the Delta I-class submarine. The design was essentially the same, however, the submarine was lengthened in the fourth and fifth compartments by 16 meters (52 ft) to allow the installation of four more missile tubes. The NATO reporting name, Delta II indicates this submarine as a visually distinguishable new class. The Soviet designation, 667BD Murena-M indicates this submarine is an improved Delta I.

Only four submarines of this class were built, apparently in favor of building the following class, the Delta III, and all Delta IIs were out of service by 1996..
The Delta III (Project 667BDR Kalmar) is Only one vessel on active status. The 667BDR Kal'mar (Squid) Delta III-class submarine is a large ballistic missile submarine. Like the earlier Delta-class submarines the Delta III class is a double-hulled design with a thin, low magnetic steel outer hull wrapped around a thicker inner pressure hull. Development began in 1972 at the Rubin Central Design Bureau for Marine Engineering.[citation needed] The submarine was the first that could launch any number of missiles in a single salvo, also the first submarine capable of carrying ballistic missiles with multiple independently targetable reentry vehicles. The submarine carried 16 of the R-29R missiles each carrying 3 to 7 MIRVs, with a range of 6,500 to 8,000 km (4,000 to 5,000 mi), depending on the number of re-entry vehicles.

The Delta III class was also equipped with a new battle management system the Almaz-BDR for the fire control of torpedoes in deep-water, also a new inertial navigation system Tobol-M-1, and later the Tobol-M-2. A hydroacoustic navigational system called Shmeľ (Bumblebee) allows the submarine to determine its position from hydroacoustic buoys. 

On 30 September 2008, a Russian Navy spokesman reported that Ryazan had successfully completed a 30-day transit from a base in northern Russia under the Arctic ice cap to a base on the Kamchatka Peninsula. The Navy added that Ryazan will soon be assigned to regularly patrol the Pacific Ocean.

K-433 Svyatoy Georgiy Pobedonosets was involved in a collision with a fishing vessel on 22 September 2011. The submarine did not sustain serious damage..
The Delta IV (Project 667BDRM Delfin) is Seven Delta IV-class submarines were built; all are still in service in the Russian Navy. The submarines, based at the Sayda Guba Naval Base, operate in the Northern Fleet. The Severodvinsk Shipyard built these vessels between 1981 and 1992. The last vessel was K-407 Novomoskovsk.

The design of the Delta IV class resembles that of the Delta III class and constitutes a double-hulled configuration with missile silos housed in the inner hull.

The submarines have an operational diving depth of 320 meters (1,050 ft), with a maximum depth of 400 meters (1,300 ft). The propulsion system allows speeds of 24 knots (44 km/h) submerged using two VM-4 pressure water reactors rated at 180 MW. It features two turbines of type GT3A-365 rated at 27.5 MW.
The Delta IV Stretch class/PODMOSKOVYE special missions sub is This DELTA IV-class submarine was modified for special missions. The missile compartment was removed and replaced with a module capable of deploying mini-submarines..
The VERKHOTURYE  (ex-Russian IMENI XXVI SEZDA KPSS) is Commissioned: 1985
Class: Delta IV Class
Status: Active
Fleet: Northern Fleet.
The Ekaterinburg is Commissioned: 1985
Class: Delta IV Class
Status: Active
Fleet: Northern Fleet.
The Podmoskovye is Commissioned:1986
Class: Delta IV Class
Status: Active
Fleet: Northern Fleet.
The Tula is Commissioned: 1987
Class: Delta IV Class
Status: Active
Fleet: Northern Fleet.
The Bryansk is Commissioned: 1988
Class: Delta IV Class
Status: Active
Fleet: Northern Fleet.
The Karelia is Commissioned: 1989
Class: Delta IV Class
Status: Active
Fleet: Northern Fleet.
The Novomoskovsk is Commissioned: 1990
Class: Delta IV Class
Status: Active
Fleet: Northern Fleet.

Here is System information for the Delta IV-Class (Project BDRM Delfin Class) Russian Nuclear-Powered Ballistic Missile Submarine:
The Alternative Designation is Delta IV Class; Project BDRM Delfin Class.
The Type is Nuclear-Powered Ballistic Missile Submarine.
The Builder is Severodvinsk.
The Crew is 135 (41 off. + 94 enl.).

Here is Dimensions information for the Delta IV-Class (Project BDRM Delfin Class) Russian Nuclear-Powered Ballistic Missile Submarine:
The Length, Overall is 167.0 m.
The Length, Waterline is 158.0 m.
The Beam is 12.2 m.
The Draft is 8.8 m.
The Displacement, Surface is 11,740 tons.
The Displacement, Submerged is 15,500 tons.

Here is Propulsion System information for the Delta IV-Class (Project BDRM Delfin Class) Russian Nuclear-Powered Ballistic Missile Submarine:
The Engine Name is 2 x VM-4SG.
The Engine Type is pressurized water nuclear reactors
   (90 MW each) driving 2 sets Type OK-700A geared steam turbines.
The Engine Power is 60,000 total shp.
The Auxiliary Power is 2 x 225-shp electric low-speed motors.
The Maximum Surface Speed is 14 knots.
The Maximum Submerged Speed is 24 knots.
The Operating Depth is 380 m.
The Maximum Crush Depth is 450 m.
The Endurance is 80 days.

Here is Communications information for the Delta IV-Class (Project BDRM Delfin Class) Russian Nuclear-Powered Ballistic Missile Submarine:
The Note is The submarine has two floating VLF and ELF antenna buoys to receive radio messages, target designation data, and satellite navigation signals while remaining at a safe depth..

Here is Missile #1 information for the Delta IV-Class (Project BDRM Delfin Class) Russian Nuclear-Powered Ballistic Missile Submarine of the Missile Weapon System:
The Name is 16 x SS-N-23 Skiff (R-29RM Shtil) Intercontinental-Range Submarine-Launched Ballistic Missile (SLBM).
The Type is Intercontinental-Range Submarine-Launched Ballistic Missile (SLBM).
The Manufacturer is Krasnoyarsk Machine-Building Plant.
The Length is 14.9 m.
The Diameter is 1.9 m.
The Launch Weight is 47,000 kg.
The Payload is Multiple Independently Targetable Reentry Vehicles.
The Guidance System is Astroinertial.
The Warhead is Nuclear.
The Propulsion is Three-stage liquid propellant.
The Range is 8,300 km.
The Maximum Speed is INA.
The CEP is 500 m.
The Basic Load is 16 x SS-N-23 Skiff (R-29RM Shtil) Intercontinental-Range Submarine-Launched Ballistic Missile (SLBM).

Here is Torpedo System information for the Delta IV-Class (Project BDRM Delfin Class) Russian Nuclear-Powered Ballistic Missile Submarine:
The Torpedo Tube Launcher is 4 x 533-mm bow tubes.
The Torpedo Type is INA.
The Basic Load is 12 x torpedoes.

Here is Radar Systems information for the Delta IV-Class (Project BDRM Delfin Class) Russian Nuclear-Powered Ballistic Missile Submarine:
The Surface Search / Navigation Radar is 1 x MRK-50 Albatros (Snoop Tray) surface search/navigation.

Here is Sonar Systems information for the Delta IV-Class (Project BDRM Delfin Class) Russian Nuclear-Powered Ballistic Missile Submarine:
The Active / Passive Sonar is 1 x MGK-500 series Skat-BDRM (Shark Gill) active/passive low-frequency suite.
The Active Mine-Avoidance Sonar is 1 x MGK-519 (Mouse Roar**) active mine-avoidance sonar.
The Towed Passive Array Sonar is 1 x Pelamida towed passive array.
The Caivation Monitor is 1 x MG-512 cavitation monitor.
The Upward-Looking Echo Sounder is 1 x MG-518 upward-looking echo sounder.
The Mine-Detection Sonar is 1 x MG-519 mine-detection.
The Sound-Velocity Measurement is 1 x MG533 sound-velocity measurement.
The Ice-Lane Detector is 1 x NOR-1 active ice-lane detector.
The Surface Warning Sonar is 1 x NOK-1 active surface warning.

Here is Protection information for the Delta IV-Class (Project BDRM Delfin Class) Russian Nuclear-Powered Ballistic Missile Submarine:
The Hull Armor is These are double-hull submarines, with the forward diving planes mounted on the sail. The diving planes can rotate to vertical for breaking through ice.The submarines have a high freeboard.
The Countermeasures is INA.
The NBC Water Washdown System is Yes.
The E/O is 1 x Cod Eye radiometric sextant; 2 periscopes.
The EW Intercept is 1 x MRP-10 Zaliv-P (Brick Pulp) intercept.
The EW Direction Finder is 1 x Park Lamp** direction-finder.

