This document describes the Z-18 (White Heron) Chinese Medium Transport Helicopter.

The Changhe Z-18 is a medium transport helicopter developed by Changhe Aircraft Industries Corporation (CAIC) to replace the Z-8. The Z-18 is the largest military helicopter ever developed in China.

The Z-18 is a single-rotor helicopter with tail rotor and a non-retractable landing gear, thought to be based on the Avicopter AC313, an updated design based on the earlier Harbin Z-8. A naval version of the Z-18 was first revealed on board the Chinese aircraft carrier Liaoning. In 2014, the army version of Z-18 was revealed in Chinese army publications.

The Z-18 replaces the Z-8's distinctive boat hull lower fuselage with a tail ramp for offloading small vehicles; it also has a glass cockpit and a lightweight hull made with extensive use of composites and titanium as well as composite main rotor blades. It is powered by three WZ-6C turboshafts, giving it a maximum takeoff weight of 13.8 tons (30,360 lb) and enabling it to carry 27 troops or five tons (11,000 lb) of cargo with a range of up to 1,000 km (620 mi).

Several versions are planned including utility/VIP transport, airborne early warning (AEW), and anti-submarine warfare (ASW). The Z-18F ASW variant is equipped with a dipping sonar, up to 32 sonobuoys, and 4 Yu-7 torpedoes. It has a chin-mounted surface search radar and is probably fitted with a datalink similar to the Ka-28 enabling it to operate as a third-party targeting director for anti-ship missiles. The Z-18J AEW variant has a radar antenna fitted in place of the loading ramp that is lowered for operation when airborne. Because of its size there are few People's Liberation Army Navy vessels capable of operating the Z-18; some that are include Liaoning, Type 071 amphibious transport dock, Type 075 landing helicopter dock, and Type 055 destroyer.

In January 2018, China released video footage indicating that the Z-8G Gaoyuan (Plateau) had entered service with the People's Liberation Army Ground Force. It may replace the S-70C-2 and Z-8B version for operations in high-altitude areas such as Xinjiang and Tibet, as in flight tests it was able to reach as high as 9,000 m (29,528 ft). Some Z-8Gs are fitted with a SATCOM fairing on the tailboom, aft of the engine exhausts.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is Variants information for the Z-18 (White Heron) Chinese Medium Transport Helicopter:
The Z-18A is Z-18A is an utility variant for the Chinese army. The army version has a further protruding nose section. A terrain-following radar is fitted under the nose. It is expected to replace the old Z-8A..
The Z-18 is Based on the Avicopter AC313 design, it features a modified lowered fuselage and an improved WZ-6C turboshaft. A nose-mounted weather radar as well as FLIR and TV turrets were installed. Additional communication and navigation antennae are also added..
The Z-8G is Army version with an extended nose housing a terrain following radar and EO turret..
The Z-18F is Anti-submarine version with surface radar, dipping sonar, hardpoints intended for torpedoes/missiles, and sonobuoys..
The Z-18J is AEW variant with a multimode active electronically scanned array radar from the 38th Institute..

Here is System information for the Z-18 (White Heron) Chinese Medium Transport Helicopter:
The Alternative Designation is Z-18.
The Type is Medium Transport Helicopter.
The Manufacturer is Avicopter (Changhe Aircraft Industries Corporation).
The Crew is 2.
The Passengers is 27.
The Blades, Main Rotor is 4.
The Blades, Tail Rotor is 5.
The Number of Engines is 3.
The Number of Hard Points is INA.
The Internal Payload is 4 tons.
The External Payload is 5 tons.
The Medical Capability is Alternatively it can carry about 14 stretchers, plus medical attendants..
The Landing Gear is Landing gear is non-retractable..
The Note #1 is The Z-18 is the largest military helicopter ever developed in China.
The Note #2 is Currently the Z-18 can operate only from the largest naval vessels..

Here is Dimensions information for the Z-18 (White Heron) Chinese Medium Transport Helicopter:
The Length is 23 m.
The Main Rotor Diameter is 19 m.
The Height is 7 m.
The Weight, Empty is 9.8 tons.
The Weight, Maximum Take Off is 13.8 tons.

Here is Automotive information for the Z-18 (White Heron) Chinese Medium Transport Helicopter:
The Engine Name is 3 x WZ-6C.
The Engine Type is Turboshafts.
The Engine Power is 3 x 1 752 shp.
The Maximum Speed is up to 336 km/h.
The Service Ceiling is up to 9 km.
The Maximum Range is 900 km.
The Ferry Range is 1 600 km.

Here is Fire Control and Avionics information for the Z-18 (White Heron) Chinese Medium Transport Helicopter:
The Note is The helicopter is fitted with a nose-mounted weather radar and FLIR/TV turret..

Here is Protection information for the Z-18 (White Heron) Chinese Medium Transport Helicopter:
The Add on Armor is No.
The Stealth Properties is None.
The Heat Signature Reduction is No.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The EW Counter Measures/CCM is INA.
The Counter Measures (Chaff/Flares) is INA.

