This document describes the Laska 2.0 Ukrainian 4x4 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).

The Laska 2.0 Ukrainian 4x4 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) is a mobile multifunctional fire support and reconnaissance company of the company level – a battalion for guarding the perimeter and borders.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Ukraine.

Here is Variants information for the Laska 2.0 Ukrainian 4x4 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The FP01 is a stationary platform for the protection of important state facilities, borders, military units.
The MP01 is a mobile combat robotic platform mounted on mobile objects to perform tasks on patrolling the area, special reconnaissance and military operations..

Here is System information for the Laska 2.0 Ukrainian 4x4 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Alternative Designation is Laska 2.0.
The Type is Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).
The Manufacturer is Timberland Military Solutions.
The Configuration is 4x4.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Platform Management System is Autonomous control
SMART TRACK
movement behind the driving car / object
by GPS
perimeter patrol
movement from point to point
return “home” when the control channel disappears
without GPS
movement during electronic warfare.
The Autonomous Control is 2 NVIDIA Jetson on-board computers for:
road tracking
processing objects and obstacles by the neural network from all sides
2 programmable PLC controllers for control:
movement of the robotic platform
turret management.
The Remote Control is locally (line of sight): gestures, voice, leash
remotely: from an operator station, from a tablet, from a Quadro copter.
The Communication Channel is WiFi 5 GHz.
The Operating Temperature is – 25 ° to + 60 ° C.

Here is Dimensions information for the Laska 2.0 Ukrainian 4x4 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Length is 2,270 mm.
The Width is 1,300 mm.
The Height is 1,500 mm.
The Weight (without Weapons and Ammunition) is 670 kg.
The Clearance is 220 mm.

Here is Automotive information for the Laska 2.0 Ukrainian 4x4 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is 1-cylinder, 4-stroke.
The Engine Power is 50 hp.
The Fuel Capacity is 16 liters.
The Control Range is 2 km.
The Maximum Speed is INA.

Here is Protection information for the Laska 2.0 Ukrainian 4x4 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Armor is 2 mm steel.

