This document describes the Listva Russian 6x6 Remote Controlled Mine Clearance Vehicle.

Russia’s Strategic Missile Force unveiled the Listva remote-controlled mine-clearance vehicle to the public at the Army 2018 international military and technical forum.

"The remote-controlled mine-clearance vehicle was developed to increase the survivability and protection level of ground-mobile missile systems on combat patrol routes and in the field, breach minefields and remove remote-controlled explosive devices," the press office said.

The combat effectiveness of the Listva system was checked. During the check, systems of the type deactivated explosive devices and then they were delivered to missile large units. The vehicle was developed specifically for the Strategic Missile Force and proved its effectiveness during a command post exercise involving the Novosibirsk-based missile large unit. The Listva vehicle’s electronics can detect mines and IEDs at a distance of 100 meters within a 30° sector.

Strategic Missile Force engineering units are planning to receive more than 300 items of engineering equipment before 2020, including obstacle-clearing vehicles, heavy mechanized bridges, excavators, truck cranes and some other vehicles. Wheeled road-building vehicles developed specifically for the Strategic Missile Force will make up more than 50 percent of the engineering materiel to be delivered.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is System information for the Listva Russian 6x6 Remote Controlled Mine Clearance Vehicle:
The Alternative Designation is SBA-60K2 Bulat.
The Type is Remote-Controlled Mine Clearance Vehicle.
The Chassis is SBA-60K2 Bulat.
The Crew is 2.
The Passenger Capacity is 8.
The Compartments is The vehicle has three combat compartments: the first houses the commander and driver; the second conceals the radio operator, who searches for mines and scans the surrounding terrain; the third is for a team of sappers, in case a mine needs to be finished off manually..
The Mine Detection is The Listva vehicle’s electronics can detect mines and IEDs at a distance of 100 meters within a 30° sector..
The Sensors is This includes 16 externally mounted sensors for locating objects at a range of one hundred meters and transmitting the information in real time to the operator at the control panel..

Here is Dimensions information for the Listva Russian 6x6 Remote Controlled Mine Clearance Vehicle:
The Length is 8 m.
The Width is 2.5 m.
The Height is 2.6 m.
The Weight, Combat is 15.9–19.5 t.
The Ground Pressure is INA.

Here is Automotive information for the Listva Russian 6x6 Remote Controlled Mine Clearance Vehicle:
The Engine Name is KamAZ-740.31-240.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 240.
The Range is 800.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 90.
The Speed, Mine Detection is 15 kph.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.
The Fording Depth is INA.

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Listva Russian 6x6 Remote Controlled Mine Clearance Vehicle:
The Note is The Listva can be equipped with either 1 × 7.62-mm or 12.7-mm Machine Guns..

Here is Fire Control information for the Listva Russian 6x6 Remote Controlled Mine Clearance Vehicle:
The Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is No.

Here is Protection information for the Listva Russian 6x6 Remote Controlled Mine Clearance Vehicle:
The Hull Armor is The armour on the Listva can withstand direct hits from 7.62 mm calibre weapons. The vehicle features prominent, high-angled plated armour meant to deflect small-arms' rounds and artillery shell shrapnel, and features a V-shaped hull to increase protection against mine and IED blasts, with the bottom of the hull being resistant to explosions equivalent to 1 kg of TNT. The Bulat is also fitted with mine-resistant seats..
The Applique Armor is Available.
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is No.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is No.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

