This document describes the FACS Chinese Field Artillery Fire Control System.

The FACS Chinese Field Artillery Fire Control System consists of an integrated laser rangefinder (LRF) and electro-optic device together with data terminals for the forward observation officer (FOO) and the guns, and a laptop computer for the Fire Control Center (FCC) at the battalion level.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is System information for the FACS Chinese Field Artillery Fire Control System:
The Alternate Designation is FACS.
The Type is Field Artillery Fire Control System.
The Manufacturer is Poly Technologies Inc.
The System is The system consists of an integrated laser rangefinder (LRF) and electro-optic device together with data terminals for the forward observation officer (FOO) and the guns, and a laptop computer for the Fire Control Centre (FCC) at battalion level. The LRF is accurate to 5,000 m..
The Communication Range is Communications can either be over wire to a maximum range of 20 km, or available radio communication systems, with transmission rates up to 1,200 bps..
The Laser Detection Range is 150–500 m.
The Elevation is 0–750 mil.
The Gun Position Altitude is 0–5,000 m.
The Firing Data Accuracy Range is < 7/10,000.
The Firing Data Accuracy Traverse is <0.5 mil.
The Data Processing Time is less than 3 seconds.
The Site Slope is -200 to 200 mil.
The Battalion System Reaction Time is Less Than 10 seconds.
The Transmission Rate is 300, 600, 1,200 bps.
The Maximum Transmission Distance is 20 km (wire); Radio Range.
The Capacity, Battalion Computer is 3 batteries.
The Capacity, Battery Computer is 6 guns.
The Note is The maximum number of guns that can be controlled using the system is 48, which is understood to represent either a battalion of four 12-gun batteries or three 16-gun batteries. Additionally, two battalion systems can be linked together..

Here is Dimensions information for the FACS Chinese Field Artillery Fire Control System:
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Battalion Laptop Weight is 3.5 kg.

