This document describes the Mi-8 (Hip) Russian Medium Transport Helicopter.

Mi-8 (Hip) Russian Medium Transport Helicopter is a medium twin-turbine helicopter, originally designed by the Soviet Union, and now produced by Russia. In addition to its most common role as a transport helicopter, the Mi-8 is also used as an airborne command post, armed gunship, and reconnaissance platform. Along with the related, more powerful Mil Mi-17, the Mi-8 is among the world's most-produced helicopters, used by over 50 countries. As of 2015, it is the third most common operational military aircraft in the world.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bhutan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Canada, CFE Treaty, China, Colombia, Congo, Croatia, Cuba, Czech Republic, Djibouti, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Georgia, Germany, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Laos (People's Democratic Republic), Latvia, Libya, Lithuania, Maldives, Mali, Mexico, Moldova, Mongolia, Montenegro, Mozambique, Nepal, North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Pakistan, Peru, Poland, Romania, Russian Federation, Serbia, Slovakia, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Tajikistan, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, United States of America, Uzbekistan, Viet Nam.

Here is Variants information for the Mi-8 (Hip) Russian Medium Transport Helicopter:
The Mi-8T (NATO – Hip-C) is First mass production utility transport version, it can carry four UV-16-57 unguided rocket pods, (with S-5 rockets), mounted to four hardpoints on two outrigger pylons, and is armed with one or two side-mounted PK machine guns..
The Mi-8TV is Armed version of the Mi-8T..
The Mi-8TVK (NATO – Hip-E, a.k.a. Mi-8TB) is Version used as a gunship or direct air support platform. Airframe modifications add 2x external hard points for a total of 6, and mount a flexible 12.7 mm (0.5-inch) KV-4 machine gun in the nose. Armament of 57 mm S-5 rockets, six UV-32-57 rocket pods, 551-lb (250-kg) bombs, or four AT-2 Swatter ATGMs..
The Mi-8TBK (NATO – Hip-F) is Armed export version, fitted with six launch rails to carry and fire Malyutka missiles..
The Mi-8IV (NATO – Hip-G, a.k.a. Mi-9) is Airborne command post version fitted with "Ivolga" system, characterized by antennas, and Doppler radar on tail boom..
The Mi-8PP (NATO – Hip-K) is Airborne jamming platform with "Polye" (field) system. From 1980, the type was fitted with the new "Akatsiya" system and redesignated the Mi-8PPA. It is characterized by six "X"-shaped antennas on each side of the aft fuselage. Built to escort troop-carrying versions of this helicopter, and disrupt potentially-nearby SPAAG radars, such as those of the Flakpanzer Gepard..
The Mi-8PD is Polish airborne command post version..
The Mi-8SMV (NATO – Hip-J) is Airborne jamming platform with "Smalta-V" system, characterized by two small boxes on each side of the fuselage. Used for protection of ground attack aircraft against enemy air defenses..
The Mi-8VKP (NATO – Hip-D, a.k.a. Mi-8VzPU) is Airborne communications platform with rectangular communication canisters mounted on weapons racks and with two frame-type aerials above the rear fuselage..
The Mi-8AD is Minelaying version with four VSM-1 dispensers. Each dispenser contains 29 cassettes KSO-1 with anti-personnel mines, for example 7,424 x PFM-1 or 464 x POM-2 or 116 x PTM-3..
The Mi-8AV is Minelaying version with VMR-1 or −2 system for 64 or 200 anti-tank mines..
The Mi-8BT is Mine-clearing version..
The Mi-8MB "Bissektrisa" is Military ambulance version..
The Mi-8R (a.k.a. Mi-8GR) is Tactical reconnaissance version with Elint system "Grebeshok-5"..
The Mi-8K is Artillery observation, reconnaissance version..
The Mi-8SMT is Military staff transport version, fitted with improved radio equipment R-832 and R-111..
The Mi-8SKA is Photo-reconnaissance version..
The Mi-8T(K) is Photo-reconnaissance version..
The Mi-8TZ is Fuel transport tanker version..
The Mi-8MTYu is Only one was built and used by the Ukrainian Air Force, based at AB "Kirovske". Intended for detection of re-entry vehicles, and small surface targets. In the nose radar antenna..
The Mi-8MSB is Modernized passenger-transport version for civil aviation.
The Mi-8MSB-V is Modernized multipurpose helicopter for the Ukrainian Armed Forces..
The Mi-8T (NATO – Hip-C) is Civilian and military utility transport version, with accommodation for 24 passengers, fitted with tip-up seats along the cabin walls, circular cabin windows and large rear clamshell doors with a sloping hinge line. The Mi-8T is powered by two 1,677 shp (1,251 kW) Klimov TV2-117A turboshaft engines, giving the helicopter a maximum speed of 155 mph (249 km/h) at sea level..
The Mi-8P is Civilian passenger transport version, with accommodation for between 28 and 32 passengers, fitted with square cabin windows, small rear clamshell doors with a vertical hinge line and a horizontally split rear airstair door in between; powered by two 1,700 hp (1,300 kW) Klimov TV2-117A turboshaft engines..
The Mi-8S "Salon" is Civilian VIP transport version, with accommodation for between 9 and 11 passengers, equipped with a galley and toilet..
The Mi-8MPS is Search and rescue version (operated usually in Malaysia for Fire and Rescue Department services)..
The Mi-8MA is Polar exploration version for use in the Arctic..
The Mi-8MT is Flying crane version..
The Mi-8AT is Civilian transport version, fitted with two improved TV2-117AG turboshaft engines..
The Mi-8ATS is Agricultural version, fitted with a hopper and spray bars..
The Mi-8TL is Air accident investigation version..
The Mi-8TM is Upgraded transport version, fitted with a weather radar..
The Mi-8TS is Hot and high desert version..
The Mi-8VIP is Deluxe VIP transport version, with accommodation for between 7 and 9 passengers..
The Mi-8PA is Modified version for Japanese regulations. One only was built, in 1980. It was used by Aero Asahi for heavy material transport in a mountainous region. It was retired in 1993 and later moved to the Tokorozawa Aviation Museum..

Here is System information for the Mi-8 (Hip) Russian Medium Transport Helicopter:
The Alternative Designation is Mi-8T; NATO: Hip.
The Primary Function is Armed assault-transport.
The Type is Medium twin-turbine transport helicopter.
The Manufactuer is Kazan Helicopter Plant
Ulan-Ude Aviation Plant.
The Crew is 3 (2x pilots, 1x flight engineer).
The Blades, Main Rotor is 5.
The Blades, Tail Rotor is 3.
The Day/Night Capable is The Mi-8 is equipped with instruments and avionics allowing operation in day, night, and instrument meteorological conditions..
The All Weather Capable is The Mi-8 is equipped with instruments and avionics allowing operation in day, night, and instrument meteorological conditions..
The Takeoff or Landing Limitations is INA.
The Vertical Climb Rate is 9.
The Number of Hard Points is 4.
The Standard Payload is HIP C: 24 troops, or 3,000 kg internal or external loads on 4x hardpoints..
The Landing Gear is Fixed main gear struts run down and out from attachment points on the upper, rear fuselage. A second strut holds the wheel well away from the lower fuselage. The two-wheel nose gear is fitted under the fuselage just behind the cockpit.

Here is Dimensions information for the Mi-8 (Hip) Russian Medium Transport Helicopter:
The Length, with Rotors Turning is 25.2.
The Length, Fuelage is 18.2.
The Width is 2.5.
The Height is 5.65.
The Main Rotor Diameter is 21.3.
The Tail Rotor Diameter is 3.9.
The Cargo Compartment, Length is 5.3.
The Cargo Compartment, Width is 2.3.
The Cargo Compartment, Height is 1.8.
The Weight, Maximum Gross is 12,000.
The Weight, Normal Takeoff is 11,100.
The Weight, Empty is 6,990.

Here is Automotive information for the Mi-8 (Hip) Russian Medium Transport Helicopter:
The Engine Name is 2 x TV2-117.
The Engine Type is Medium twin-turbine.
The Engine Power is 1,482.
The Fuel, Internal is 445 liters.
The Fuel, Internal Aux Tank is 915 liters ea.
The Fuel, External Fuel Tank is 45 liters in port tank,
680 liters in starboard tank.
The Speed, Maximum is 250.
The Speed, Average is 225.
The Service Ceiling is 4,500.
The Range, Maximum Load is 350.
The Range, Normal Load is 460.
The Range, with Auxilery Fuel is 950.
The Service Ceiling, Service is 4,500.
The Service Ceiling,Hover (out of ground effect) is 800.
The Service Ceiling,Hover (in ground effect) is 1,900.
The Vertical Climb Rate is 9.

Here is Door Mounted Gun information for the Mi-8 (Hip) Russian Medium Transport Helicopter:
The Note is Loaded combat troops can fire personal weapons through windows from inside cabin..

Here is Rocket System information for the Mi-8 (Hip) Russian Medium Transport Helicopter of the Wing Mounted Weapons:
The Name is UB-32 (rocket pod).
The Type is 57 mm, reusable, 32-salvo rocket pod.
The Length, Launcher is 2,080.
The Diameter, Launcher is 464.
The Basic Load for the UB-32 Rocket Pod is 4, one on each hardpoint.
The Number of Rockets in each UB-32 Rocket Pod is 32.

Here is Rocket information for the Mi-8 (Hip) Russian Medium Transport Helicopter of the Wing Mounted Weapons:
The Name is S-5 Rockets.
The Type is Rocket.
The Length, Rocket is 2,080.
The Diameter, Rocket is 481.
The Weight Empty is 103.
The Weight Loaded is 264.
The Warhead Types is produced in a variety of sub-types with different warheads, including HEAT anti-armor (S-5K), high-explosive fragmentation (S-5M/MO), smoke, and incendiary rounds.
The Maximum Effective Range is 3-4 km depending on the warhead and fuze.
The Basic Load is 32 x S-5 Rockets per UB-32 Rocket Pod.

Here is Fire Control information for the Mi-8 (Hip) Russian Medium Transport Helicopter:
The Fire Control System Type is INA.
The Fire Control Radar is INA.
The Digital or Analog Cockpit is INA.
The Direct Fire Control is Yes.
The Laser Designator is INA.
The Automated Helmet is INA.
The Position Location System is Yes.
The Weather Radar is Type 8A-813.
The Navigation Radar is DISS-32-90 Doppler navigation under tailboom.

Here is Protection information for the Mi-8 (Hip) Russian Medium Transport Helicopter:
The Armor Type is Bolt-on.
The Fuselage is semi-monocoque pod and boom fuselage has a nearly stepless front.
The Cockpit Glass is large, five-section windshield and lower nose windows.
The Stealth Properties is No.
The Heat Signature Reduction is IR over engine exhausts.
The Add on Armor is Available.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The EW is INA.
The EW Counter Measures/CCM is INA.
The Counter Measures (Chaff/Flares) is Yes,.
The Jammer is Hot Brick IR.

