This document describes the Scorpio Ukrainian Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).

The Scorpio Ukrainian Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) is mobile multifunctional fire support and reconnaissance asset of troop squadron level for guarding the perimeter and borders. Capabilities include: providing maneuver with fire; used strengthening the platoon (squad) with a machine gun / grenade launcher on a mobile platform; builds a more effective line of fire with active company defense in the presence of three or more units of this equipment.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Ukraine.

Here is System information for the Scorpio Ukrainian Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Alternative Designation is Scorpio.
The Type is Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).
The Manufacturer is Timberland Military Solutions.
The Configuration is Tracked.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Platform Management System is 2 NVIDIA Jetson on-board computers for: road tracking; processing objects and obstacles by the neural network from all sides.

2 programmable PLC controllers for control: movement of the robotic platform; turret management..
The Autonomous Control is SMART TRACK
– movement behind the driving car / object
by GPS
– perimeter patrol
– movement from point to point
– return “home” when the control channel disappears
without GPS
– movement during electronic warfare.
The Remote Control is Locally (line of sight): gestures, voice, leash remotely: from an operator station, from a tablet, from a Quadro copter..
The Communication Channel is WiFi 5 GHz.
The Operating Temperature is – 25 ° to + 60 ° C.

Here is Dimensions information for the Scorpio Ukrainian Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Length is 1,320 mm.
The Width is 860 mm.
The Height is 1,900 mm.
The Weight (without Weapons and Ammunition) is 370 kg.
The Clearance is 140 mm.

Here is Automotive information for the Scorpio Ukrainian Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Electric.
The Engine Power is 20 hp.
The Control Range is 2 km.
The Maximum Speed is INA.

Here is Protection information for the Scorpio Ukrainian Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Armor is IP65; 2 mm steel.

