This document describes the Dajiang-Class (Type 925) Chinese Submarine Support Ship.

The Type 925 Dajiang is a type of naval auxiliary ship belonging to the People's Republic of China. Each ship is usually equipped with up to two Type 7103 DSRV class Deep Submergence Rescue Vehicles (DSRVs). The lead ship of the Dajiang class is the Changxingdao. The Type 925 is a submarine tender that can also be used as a submarine rescue ship, and hence, it is designated as a submarine support ship (Qian-Ting Zhi-Yuan Jian, 潜艇支援舰) by Chinese.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is System information for the Dajiang-Class (Type 925) Chinese Submarine Support Ship:
The Alternative Designation is Dajiang-Class (Type 925) Submarine Support Ship.
The Type is Naval Auxiliary Ship.
The Builder is Hudong SY.
The Crew is 308.
The Note 1: is These ships are equipped with an aft helicopter deck and hangars for 2 Z-8 Super Frelon helicopters.  These large multi role naval auxiliary ships are the most fexlible type in the Chinese navy, capable of performing a variety of tasks, including serving as a submarine rescue ship (ARS), marine salvage rescue ship (ASR), submarine tender (AS), and surface ship's tender. Two Type 7103 DSRVs can be carried during submarine rescue operations and they are handled by a large crane on the fore deck, though usually, only one Type 7103 DSRV is carried while the slot for the second is used for a Type 7103 training submersible, which is used to simulate stranded submarines in training exercises. The handling system of Type 7103 DSRV is also used for Sea Pole class bathyscaphes and Osprey class submersibles. With only slight modifications, Type 925 Dajiang class is capable of supporting all submersibles and Unmanned underwater vehicles (UUVs) in the Chinese inventory.

Here is Dimensions information for the Dajiang-Class (Type 925) Chinese Submarine Support Ship:
The Length is 156.
The Beam is INA.
The Draft is INA.
The Displacement, Standard is INA.
The Displacement, Full Load is 10.087.

Here is Propulsion System information for the Dajiang-Class (Type 925) Chinese Submarine Support Ship:
The Engine Name is 2 MAN.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 6700.
The Maximum Range is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 37 km/h (20 knots).

