This document describes the FIM-92 Stinger American Man-Portable Air-Defense System (MANPADS).

Hezbollah Proliferation. The FIM-92 Stinger is a Man-Portable Air-Defense System (MANPADS) that operates as an infrared homing surface-to-air missile (SAM). It can be adapted to fire from a wide variety of ground vehicles and helicopters (as an AAM). Developed in the United States, it entered service in 1981 and is used by the militaries of the United States and 29 other countries. It is principally manufactured by Raytheon Missile Systems and is produced under license by EADS in Germany and by Roketsan in Turkey, with 70,000 missiles produced.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Bangladesh, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Egypt, Finland, Georgia, Germany, Greece, India, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Israel, Japan, Lithuania, Morocco, Netherlands, Non-State Actors, North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Norway, Pakistan, Portugal, Slovenia, South Korea (Republic of Korea), Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the FIM-92 Stinger American Man-Portable Air-Defense System (MANPADS):
The The MANPADS has been adapted for launch from APC or IFV chassis. It has also been adapted for light utility vehicles and combat support vehicles, such as the German Wiesel-based Fliegerfaust-2 (FLF-2). A variety of air defense launcher systems can use Stinger, Mistral, or other MANPADS. is .
The FIM-92A is Stinger Basic: The basic model..
The FIM-92B is Stinger POST: In this version, the infrared seeker head was replaced by a combined IR/UV seeker that utilized rosette scanning. This resulted in achieving significantly higher resistance to enemy countermeasures (flares) and natural disturbances. Production ran from 1981 to 1987; a total of 600 missiles were produced.[.
The FIM-92C is Stinger RMP: The resistance to interference was increased again by adding more powerful digital computer components. Moreover, the software of the missile could now be reconfigured in a short time in order to respond quickly and efficiently to new types of countermeasures. Until 1991, some 20,000 units were produced for the U.S. Army alone..
The FIM-92D is Various modifications were continued with this version in order to increase the resistance to interference..
The FIM-92E is Stinger—RMP Block I: By adding a new rollover sensor and revised control software, the flight behavior was significantly improved. Additionally, the performance against small targets such as drones, cruise missiles and light reconnaissance helicopters was improved. The first deliveries began in 1995. Almost the entire stock of U.S. Stinger missiles was replaced by this version..
The FIM-92F is A further improvement of the E version and the current production version..
The FIM-92G is An unspecified upgrade for the D variant.[.
The FIM-92H is Indicates a D variant that has been upgraded to the E standard..
The Stinger—RMP Block II is This variant was a planned developed based on the E version. The improvements included an imaging infrared seeker head from the AIM-9X. With this modification, the detection distance and the resistance to jamming was to be greatly increased. Changes to the airframe would furthermore enable a significant increase in range. Although the missile reached the testing phase, the program was dropped in 2002 for budgetary reasons..
The FIM-92J is Block 1 missile upgrade to replace aging components to extend service life an additional 10 years. Upgrades include a proximity fuse warhead section, equipped with a target detection device to increase effectiveness against unmanned aerial vehicles..
The FIM-92K is variant of FIM-92J designed to use a vehicle datalink rather than the missile's own seeker for targeting..

Here is Weapon 1 information for the FIM-92 Stinger American Man-Portable Air-Defense System (MANPADS) of the Armament:
The Type is Missile.
The Length  is 1.52 m + launch tube.
The Diameter  is INA.
The Fire on Move is Yes, in short halt.
The Reaction Time  is 6 seconds tracking and missile activation (3-5 cooling).
The Reload Time  is less than 10 seconds.
The System Weight is 15.2 kg launch-ready, 2.6 kg belt-pack IFF.
The Time between Launches  is INA.

Here is Munition 1 information for the FIM-92 Stinger American Man-Portable Air-Defense System (MANPADS) of the Munition:
The Altitude, Maximum  is 3500.
The Combat Load, Dismount  is 2.0.
The Combat Load, from AD vehicle  is 5.0.
The Combat Load, one is 1.0.
The Diameter  is 70.0.
The Fuze Type is Contact with time delay.
The Guidance is Cooled 2nd gen passive IR homing (4.1-4.4 mm).
The Length  is 1.52.
The Name is FIM-92A.
The Probability of Hit is INA.
The Propulsion is Solid fuel, dual-thrust (ejector motor and sustainer motor).
The Range, Maximum  is 4,000+.
The Range, Minimum  is 200.0.
The Seeker Field of View  is INA.
The Self-Destruct Time is 20.0.
The Speed  is 745 m/s, Mach 2.2.
The Target Maneuver Limit is Up to 8 g.
The Tracking Rate is INA.
The Type is Frag-HE.
The Type is Missile.
The Weight  is 1.0.
The Weight  is 10.0.

Here is Day Sight information for the FIM-92 Stinger American Man-Portable Air-Defense System (MANPADS) of the Fire Control System:
The Acquisition Range  is 4000+.
The Field of View  is INA.
The Field of View  is INA.
The Type is Ring and bead, most launchers Optical   sight   with   lead bias available..

Here is Night Sight information for the FIM-92 Stinger American Man-Portable Air-Defense System (MANPADS) of the Fire Control System:
The Type is Optional AN/PAS-18, Wide- Angle Stinger Pointer System (WASP) thermal sight..

Here is Night Sights information for the FIM-92 Stinger American Man-Portable Air-Defense System (MANPADS) of the Fire Control System:
The Acquisition Range  is 20-30 km side or tail aspect, 10 km head-on aspect.
The Field of View  is 20 deg  x 12 deg.

Here is Radar information for the FIM-92 Stinger American Man-Portable Air-Defense System (MANPADS) of the Fire Control System:
The Radar Equipment is Providing Omni-directional
Reporting of Targets at Extended Ranges (REPORTER), German/Dutch EW system with I/J band radar and IFF. Range: 40 km.
Altitude:  15-4000 m.

.
The Radar Other is Several U.S. and foreign radars are    available for use with
Stinger..

