This document describes the Beretta 92FS Italian 9mm Semi-Automatic Pistol.

92FS: The World’s Most Trusted Military and Police Pistol
The Beretta 92FS has been setting the standards for best military, police and tactical pistol for over a quarter century.

The reason is that it was designed--and has kept evolving--to be and remain the most accurate, durable and reliable semiauto handgun on the market. Easy to use, absolutely safe and delivering impressive firepower, it remains the sidearm of the US military and of allied forces the world over, as well as of countless police and law-enforcement agencies.

The 92FS is a double/single-action semi auto pistol that employs an open-slide, short-recoil delayed locking-block system, which yields a faster cycle time and delivers exceptional accuracy and reliability. In particular, the open-slide design practically eliminates “stove-piping” and helps flawless cycling and feeding even after thousands and thousands of rounds. 

Regardless of the wonderful reputation it may have, the true test for a tactical pistol’s worth is at the shooting range. The 92FS consistently bests the US military requirement of a 10-shot group of 3” or less at 50 meters (just short of 55 yards). While this type of  match-grade accuracy is impressive, it is no magic. At Beretta, we know that absolutely precise tolerances keep performance consistent shot after shot—which not only gives the 92FS its extraordinary accuracy, but it makes all factory parts interchangeable within the same model. Couple this to the ability to reliably feed every variety of commercial ammunition, and it is easy to understand why the 92FS remains the best pistol in its class.

This pistol offers a variety of tactical features that make it equally safe, easy to use and dependable in the holster of military personnel as well as for home or personal defense. Its reversible magazine release lets you use either hand for tactical magazine changes, while its ambidextrous safety-decocker makes it flexible for right- or left-handed persons or for shooters trying out different gripping or shooting styles. Its Bruniton finish is highly resistant to sweat and corrosion, and after shooting, a tool-free disassembly latch makes it a snap to take the pistol apart for cleaning. These and countless other useful features make the 92FS the choice of military and police professionals all over the world, as well as individuals wanting the absolute best for sport or self-protection.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Albania, Algeria, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Egypt, France, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kuwait, Libya, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Morocco, Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Russian Federation, Slovenia, South Africa, Sudan, Syria, Thailand, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the Beretta 92FS Italian 9mm Semi-Automatic Pistol:
The 90Two is The 90two is a 9mm/.40 variant of the 92-series with a redesigned, thicker slide and frame to accommodate an accessory rail, fully dovetailed front sight and .40 S&W pressures. Other features added include a captive recoil spring, internal recoil buffer, user changeable monogrips and 17-round magazines..
The 92A1 / 96A1 is (2010–present)
The 92A1 and 96A1 were introduced in 2010, based on elements from the 92FS and 90two..
The Centennial is (2015)
The 92 FS Centennial limited edition (500 units) commemorates adoption by the Italian Military of Beretta's earliest semiautomatic pistol, the Model 1915. This Centennial 92 is notable for its frame-mounted manual safety and single-action-only mechanism. The Beretta medallion in each wood grip panel displays the anniversary dates in Roman numerals, which are also engraved on either side of the steel slide. The pistol is packaged in a custom M2A1 ammunition can bearing the Centennial logo..
The M9A1 is (2006–present)
The M9A1 was adopted by the USMC in 2006. It adds a 1-slot Picatinny rail, more aggressive front and backstrap checkering and a beveled magazine well for easier reloading of the weapon. M9A1 pistols are sold with physical vapor deposition (PVD) coated magazines developed to better withstand the conditions in the sandy environments in Iraq and Afghanistan..
The M9A3 is (2015–present)
The M9A3 (the M9A2 concept never went into production) was released in 2015, as a potential upgrade for the US military, in response to the Modular Handgun System trials. The main updates to the M9A3 were a 3-slot Picatinny rail, thinner vertical grip, removable wrap-around grips that can be swapped between Vertec-style and 'old' M9 style, fully removable sights and a universal slide, which makes the gun convertible from decocker-safety to decocker-only mode. The tip of the barrel is pre-threaded to facilitate addition of a suppressor. Additionally, the M9A3 comes with 17-round sand-resistant magazines in a beveled shape for easier reloading..
The Wilson Combat 92G Brigadier Tactical is (2014 to present)
Made in collaboration with Wilson Combat, these pistols differ from the standard Brigadier in that they have a military standard 1913 picatinny rail, all steel controls (as opposed to the polymer coated steel), decock only feature (G-model), 4.7" target crowned barrel, fluted steel guiderod, thin profile G-10 grips, rounded trigger guard, the lighter hammer spring used in the "D" model, Elite II hammer, and their own unique serial number with a "WC" prefix among other features..
The Elite LTT - Langdon Tactical is The Elite LTT was introduced by Beretta in 2018, in conjunction with firearms trainer Ernest Langdon. The LTT uses the Vertec slide with front cocking serrations on a modified M9A1 frame, and wears Langdon Tactical G10 grips. The pistol comes equipped with G-Model decocker, dovetailed front sight, steel trigger and guide rod, improved springs, and a 4.7 inch stainless barrel with target crown, just to name a few of the more prominent features..
The 93R machine pistol is The Beretta 93R is a significantly redesigned 92 to provide the option of firing in three-round bursts. It also has a longer ported barrel, heavier slide, fitting for a shoulder stock, a folding forward grip, and an extended magazine. Unlike other Berettas in the 90 series it is single-action only, does not have a decocker, and very few are around today..

Here is System information for the Beretta 92FS Italian 9mm Semi-Automatic Pistol:
The Alternate Designation(s) is 92FS.
The Primary Function / Type is Pistol.
The Manufacturer is Fabbrica d'Armi Pietro Beretta.
The Muzzle Velocity is 381.
The Effective Firing Range is 50.
The Feed System is Detachable box magazine:
*10, 15, 17, 18, 20, 30, 32 rounds (92, 98 series)
*10, 11, 12, 13, 15 rounds (96 series)
*10, 13 rounds (Compact L)
*8 rounds (Compact Type M).
The Design is The Beretta 92's open slide design ensures smooth feeding and ejection of ammunition and allows easy clearing of obstructions. The hard-chromed barrel bore reduces barrel wear and protects it from corrosion. The falling locking block design provides good accuracy and operability with suppressors due to the in-line travel of the barrel. This is in contrast to the complex travel of Browning designed barrels. The magazine release button is reversible with simple field tools. Reversing the magazine release makes left-handed operation much easier.

Increasingly, it has become popular to reduce handgun weight and cost as well as increase corrosion resistance by using polymers. Starting around the year 2000, Beretta began replacing some parts with polymer and polymer coated metal. Polymer parts include the recoil spring guide rod (which is now also fluted), magazine floor plate, magazine follower and the mainspring cap/lanyard loop. Polymer coated metal parts include the left side safety lever, trigger, and magazine release button..
The Magazines is To keep in line with the introduction of laws in some locations restricting magazines that hold more than 10 rounds, Beretta now manufactures magazines that hold fewer than the factory standard 15 rounds. These magazines have heavier crimping (deeper indentations in the side) to reduce the available space while still keeping the same external dimensions and ensuring that these magazines can be used on existing firearms. Beretta also produces 15 round "Sand Resistant" magazines to resolve issues encountered with contractor made magazines, and 17 round magazines included with the A1 models. Both magazines function in earlier 92 series and M9 model pistols.

Italian magazine manufacturer Mec-Gar now produces magazines in blue and nickel finishes with an 18-round capacity, which fit flush in the magazine well on the 92 series. Mec-Gar also produces an extended 20-round blued magazine that protrudes below the frame by 3⁄4 inch (19 mm). These magazines provide users in unrestricted states with a larger capacity magazine..

Here is Dimensions information for the Beretta 92FS Italian 9mm Semi-Automatic Pistol:
The Length is *217 millimetres (8.5 in)
*211 millimetres (8.3 in) (Vertec)
*197 millimetres (7.8 in) (Compact/Centurion).
The Barrel Length is *125 millimetres (4.9 in)
*119 millimetres (4.7 in) (Vertec/Elites/Border Marshal/Combo)
*109 millimetres (4.3 in) (Compact/Centurion).
The Weight is *950 grams (34 oz) (92)
*970 grams (34 oz) (92S/SB/F/G)
*920 grams (32 oz) (92D)
*900 grams (32 oz) (Compact/Vertec).

Here is Ammunition information for the Beretta 92FS Italian 9mm Semi-Automatic Pistol:
The Type is Rifle.
The Caliber is 9.
The Cartridge is *9×19mm Parabellum (92 series)
*.40 S&W (96 series)
*9×21mm IMI (98 series)
*7.65mm Luger (98 series).
The Basic Load is See Magazine.

Here is Sights information for the Beretta 92FS Italian 9mm Semi-Automatic Pistol:
The Type is Iron Sights.

