This document describes the Sariwon Class North Korean Corvette.

The Sariwon class corvette is a Soviet-designed corvette used by North Korea.

The class is based on the Soviet Fugas-class Tral type fleet minesweepers, but were built in North Korea in the 1960s. It is believed five ships of this type are currently active in the Korean People's Navy.

Stationed on the east coast, these ships were likely built at either Mayang-do Naval Shipyards or Bong Dao Bo Shipyards in nearby Sinpo on the mainland.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea).

Here is System information for the Sariwon Class North Korean Corvette:
The Alternative Designation is Sariwon Class.
The Type is Corvette.
The Builder is Stationed on the east coast, these ships were likely built at either Mayang-do Naval Shipyards or Bong Dao Bo Shipyards in nearby Sinpo on the mainland..
The Crew is 70.

Here is Dimensions information for the Sariwon Class North Korean Corvette:
The Length is 62.10 m.
The Beam is 7.30 m.
The Draft is 2.40 m.
The Displacement, Standard is 450 tons standard.
The Displacement, Full Load is 490 tons full load.

Here is Propulsion System information for the Sariwon Class North Korean Corvette:
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is 2 x Diesel Engines.
The Engine Power is 3,000 total bhp.
The Maximum Range is 2,700 nm at 18 kts..
The Maximum Speed is 21 knots.

Here is Gun Weapon System #1 information for the Sariwon Class North Korean Corvette of the Gun Weapon Systems:
The Name is Type 66.
The Type is Naval 57mm Gun.
The Caliber is 57mm.
The Quantity is 2 x Type 66 Naval 57mm Gun.
The Length is 3,990 mm.
The Weight is 14,000 kg.
The Barrels is Single barrel (progressive RH parabolic twist, 24 grooves).
The Action is Electronic firing.
The Elevation is −10°/+78°.
The Traverse is Full 360°.
The Rate of Fire is 200 rounds/min.
The Maximum Firing Range is 17,000 m.
The Effective Firing Range is 8,500 m.
The Feed System is 40 ready rounds, 128 rounds in ready racks in mount.
The Sights is Gyro-stabilized in local control..

Here is Gun Weapon Systems #1 Ammunition information for the Sariwon Class North Korean Corvette of the Gun Weapon Systems:
The Type is Projectile.
The Caliber is 57.
The Cartridge is 57 × 438 mm.
The Basic Load is 128.

Here is Gun Weapon Systems #2 information for the Sariwon Class North Korean Corvette of the Gun Weapon Systems:
The Name is INA.
The Type is Anti-Aircraft Gun.
The Caliber is 14.5mm.
The Quantity is 4 x Quad 14.5mm Anti-Aircraft Gun.

Here is Gun Weapon Systems #2 Ammunition information for the Sariwon Class North Korean Corvette of the Gun Weapon Systems:
The Type is Rifle.
The Caliber is 14.5mm.
The Cartridge is INA.
The Basic Load is INA.

Here is Fire Control Systems information for the Sariwon Class North Korean Corvette:
The FCS Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is INA.
The Battle Management System is No.

Here is Radar #1 information for the Sariwon Class North Korean Corvette of the Radar Systems:
The Name is 1 x Type 351 (Pot Head) Radar.
The Type is Surface Search Radar.
The Range is INA.

Here is  information for the Sariwon Class North Korean Corvette of the Radar Systems:
The Name is 1x Don-2 Radar.
The Type is Navigation Radar.
The Range is INA.

Here is Mines information for the Sariwon Class North Korean Corvette:
The Note is 30 mines.

Here is Protection information for the Sariwon Class North Korean Corvette:
The Active Protection System is No.
The Countermeasures is INA.
The NBC Water Washdown System is INA.

