This document describes the PRB M3/PRB M3A1 Belgian Anti-Tank Blast Mine.

The PRB M3 and PRB M3A1 are plastic cased minimum metal anti-tank blast mine produced by the Belgian company Poudreries Réunies de Belgique in the 1970s and 1980s. The mine is square with an olive drab body constructed from polythene with a webbing carrying handle on the side and an ammonia-free bakelite seating for the pressure plate to be screwed into. The fuze well is in the center of the seating, with the pressure plate screwed into it after the fuze has been inserted. The cylindrical pressure plate consists of two plastic plates, one of which moves under the weight of a vehicle driving over the mine to transmit the force to the fuze, shearing pins that hold it in place.

The PRB M3A1 variant has two secondary fuze wells and is often deployed with an M30 anti-lift device. The M30 fuze detonates the mine if it is lifted more than 3 cm. It is also a minimum metal mine, with the only metal components being two spring steel wire strikers and two aluminum percussion caps.

Both versions of the mine are waterproof when new, and can be laid in shallow water, but the mine casing often splits and warps in hot climates, although small splits do not affect the mine's performance. The mines are prone to sympathetic detonation if laid closer together than 2 m. The mine is found in Angola, Chad, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Iraq, Lebanon, Libya, Mali, Rwanda, Somalia, Sudan, Western Sahara, and Zambia.

In April 2011 it was reported that the rebel forces in the 2011 Libyan civil war were deploying these mines, in contravention of earlier promises not to use land mines. The Libyan National Transitional Council subsequently issued a communique promising to stop using anti-personnel and anti-vehicle landmines, and that their forces will be requested to destroy all stocks of landmines.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Angola, Belgium, Chad, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Iraq, Lebanon, Libya, Mali, Rwanda, Somalia, Sudan, Zambia.

Here is System information for the PRB M3/PRB M3A1 Belgian Anti-Tank Blast Mine:
The Name is PRB M3/PRB M3A1.
The Type is Anti-Tank Blast Mine.
The Manufacturer is INA.
The Emplacement Method is manual.
The Length is 230.
The Width is 230.
The Height is 130.
The Armor Penetration/ Kill Mechanism is blast.
The Anti-Handling is yes two secondary fuze wells..
The Detectability/ Composition is very difficult with handheld detectors
plastic..
The Fuze Type/Self Neutralize is pressure (250 kg)..
The Explosive Type & Weight/Total Weight (kg) is RDX/TNT 6.5 kg
Total: 6.8 kg.
The Comment is aka PRB ATK-M3, waterproof..
The Operating Pressure is 250.

