This document describes the J-16D Chinese Radar-Jamming Electronic Warfare Aircraft.

The J-16D variant—the “D” in the designation comes from the Chinese word for “electronic,” diànzǐ—made its first flight on December 18, 2015. Photos were released to the public three days later.

The J-16D has had its thirty-millimeter cannon and infrared sensor removed; this is not a plane intended to get into short-range dogfights! Instead, there are several new antennas and conformal electronic-warfare arrays along the fuselage. The J-16D’s nose radome is reshaped, possibly to accommodate a more advanced AESA radar. Most importantly, new electronic-warfare pods are mounted on the wingtips that resemble the American ALQ-218 electronic support measure pods on the wingtips of the EA-18G Growler. These are electromagnetic sensors that can analyze radar frequencies and help determine the position of radar-transmitting devices—data that would be highly useful both for jamming radars and for targeting them for destruction.

If the J-16D’s airframe has integrated hardware to make jamming and anti-radar missiles more effective, it probably is designed to use jammers and anti-radar missiles. Most likely, it would carry two to three jamming pods under the wings and fuselage, each optimized versus different radar frequencies. It is thought that these jammers may also use AESA technology.

The J-16 is a twin-engine, twin-seat multi-role fighter jet that is also capable of air-to-air combat. It made its debut during the Army Day parade on July 30, 2017, at the Zhurihe military training base in North China's Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region,

Before the 30 July 2017 parade, the J-16 was never shown to the public. Developed by the Shenyang Aircraft Corporation, it is based on the J-11B, a modification of Russia’s Sukhoi-30MKK. Almost half of the equipment seen at the parade to mark the PLA’s 90th birthday was being displayed for the first time, and all of it was indigenously made, according to the Ministry of Defence. The fighter is designed for a naval role and will carry “stand-off” missiles that can attack ships from beyond visual range. Contrary to initial reports, it has a conventional layout and does not incorporate notable stealth features.

The J-16, built by the Shenyang Aircraft Corporation (SAC), is reportedly a stealthy dedicated attack version of the J-11B (Su-27) multirole fighter featuring an active electronically scanned array [AESA] radar and an internal weapons bay. Chinese authorities had not formally released information on these developments. It was rumored in November 2010 that SAC was developing a 4.5th generation heavy multi-role fighter with a conventional layout based on J-11B. The first flight of this reportedly "Silent Flanker" was rumored at that time to be within 2011.

According to Hui Tong, the J-16 is a version of the J-11BS comparable to the American F-15E. Sort of a 'strike flanker'. "The aircraft can be viewed as an upgraded version of Su-30MKK based on its mission and capability, which is comparable to American F-15E. The first flight was rumored to be between 2011-2012. J-16 has tandem seats with a WSO sitting in the backseat. It features an enhanced fire-control system with additional AG modes. Besides PL-8 and PL-12 AAMs, it could also carry the same precision-guided weapons being carried by JH-7A, such as KD-88 ASM and LS-500J LGB. Compared to JH-7A, J-16 is expected to have a more powerful radar, a greater weapon load (8t), and a longer range (4,000km). "

In May 2011 China Military Report stated that "China's new 4.5 generation heavy fighter (Chinese name "Red Eagle"). August 2008 had been officially off the assembly line in Shenyang Aircraft Factory, in October 2008 in Beijing, an Air Force base in the outskirts of the first flight, October 12, 2009, conducted a second test, a complete success. J-18 is the 4.5 generation fighter aircraft that are air superiority fighter heavy. Forward-swept wing fighter design using ultra-stealth characteristics, and install a laser-active phased array radar, built-in weapons bay, and two large thrust-vectoring engines. Service time is expected around 2015. So far there is no any official information about the machine, nor any information to prove the real existence of the aircraft. Only some information from some people speculate, and speculation of official news."

In fact, the J-16 fighter's first flight had been pushed and pushed again. The main reason is that the weight of the design is overweight, but the greater headache was the funding constraints.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is Variants information for the J-16D Chinese Radar-Jamming Electronic Warfare Aircraft:
The J-16 is Strike variant..
The J-16D is Electronic warfare variant. Equipped with wingtip electronic warfare pods, and no IRST or 30 mm cannon. It reportedly made its first flight in December 2015..

Here is System information for the J-16D Chinese Radar-Jamming Electronic Warfare Aircraft:
The Alternate Designation(s) is J-16D.
The Primary Function / Type is Multirole Strike Fighter.
The Manufacturer is Shenyang Aircraft Corporation.
The Crew is 2.
The Number of Engines is 2.
The Number of Hard Points is Even with a maximum load of electronic-warfare gear, the J-16 would have six of its twelve hardpoints free to carry weapons..
The Note is The J-16D has had its thirty-millimeter cannon and infrared sensor removed; this is not a plane intended to get into short-range dogfights! Instead, there are several new antennas and conformal electronic-warfare arrays along the fuselage..

Here is Dimensions information for the J-16D Chinese Radar-Jamming Electronic Warfare Aircraft:
The Length is 21.9 m.
The Width (Wing Span) is 14.7 m.
The Height is 6.36 m.
The Wing Area is 62.04 m2.
The Empty Weight is 17,700 kg.
The Gross Weight is 26,000 kg.
The Maximum Takeoff Weight is 35,000 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the J-16D Chinese Radar-Jamming Electronic Warfare Aircraft:
The Engine Name is 2 × Shenyang WS-10B afterburning turbofans.
The Engine Type is Afterburning turbofans.
The Engine Power is 96 kN (22,000 lbf) thrust each dry, 145 kN (33,000 lbf) with afterburner.
The Maximum Speed is Mach 2.4.
The Maximum Range is 3,000 km.
The Combat Range is 1,500 km.
The Ferry Range is 4,500 km.
The Service Ceiling is 20,000 m.
The Rate of Climb is 325 m/s.

Here is Main Missile System #1 information for the J-16D Chinese Radar-Jamming Electronic Warfare Aircraft of the Main Missile Systems:
The Name is YJ-91.
The Type is Anti-Radiation Missile.
The Manufacturer is Hongdu Aviation Industry Corporation.
The Length is 4.7 m.
The Diameter is 0.3602 m.
The Weight is 0.6 ton.
The Warhead is 165 kg.
The Detonation Mechanism is Semi-armor-piercing and other.
The Engine is Ramjet.
The Propellant is Liquid fuel.
The Operational Range is 50-120 km.
The Maximum Speed is Mach 4.5.
The Guidance System is ARH / PRH.

Here is Main Missile System #2 information for the J-16D Chinese Radar-Jamming Electronic Warfare Aircraft of the Main Missile Systems:
The Name is CM-103.
The Type is Air-to-Surface Missile.
The Operational Range is 99 km.
The Guidance System is INA.
The Warhead is 80 kg.
The Basic Load is INA.

Here is Bomb Weapon Systems information for the J-16D Chinese Radar-Jamming Electronic Warfare Aircraft:
The Note is Various bombs and rockets including BeiDou satellite-guided bombs and laser-guided bombs.

Here is Fire Control / Avionics information for the J-16D Chinese Radar-Jamming Electronic Warfare Aircraft:
The Fire Control System Type is INA.
The Fire Control Radar is INA.
The Navigation Radar is AESA radar.

Here is Protection information for the J-16D Chinese Radar-Jamming Electronic Warfare Aircraft:
The Stealth Properties is Yes.
The Heat Signature Reduction is Yes.
The Add on Armor is INA.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The EW Counter Measures is Electronic countermeasure (ECM) pods.
The Radar Jamming is If the J-16D’s airframe has integrated hardware to make jamming and anti-radar missiles more effective, it probably is designed to use jammers and anti-radar missiles. Most likely, it would carry two to three jamming pods the under the wings and fuselage, each optimized versus different radar frequencies. It is thought that these jammers may also use AESA technology..
The Chaffs/Flares is Yes.
The Note #1 is New electronic-warfare pods are mounted on the wingtips that resemble the American ALQ-218 electronic support measure pods on the wingtips of the EA-18G Growler. These are electromagnetic sensors that can analyze radar frequencies and help determine the position of radar-transmitting devices—data that would be highly useful both for jamming radars and for targeting them for destruction..

