This document describes the HY-4 (CSS-C-7) Sadsack Chinese Short-Range Anti-Ship Cruise Missile.

The HY-4 development of the C-201 is a mid-range ground-, air-, and ship-launched cruise missile. Development of the C-201 HY-4 is believed to have started in the mid-1970s, replacing the C-201 HY-2 liquid propellant sustainer motor with a small turbojet engine, and adding a monopulse active radar seeker. Apart from the substitution of the turbojet engine, the overall configuration of the HY-4 variant of the C-201 missile is similar to the HY-2 variants of the C-201, with two delta wings and tri-form rudder and tail. The missile has a radar altimeter which allows the cruise height to be varied between 70 and 200 m altitude, followed by a steep dive onto the target. The air-launched version is designated as C-401

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Bangladesh.

Here is Variants information for the HY-4 (CSS-C-7) Sadsack Chinese Short-Range Anti-Ship Cruise Missile:
The HY-1 is Basic developmental version developed from the SY missiles, used only in very small numbers as land-to-ship missile for evaluation purposes. Did not enter series production and was replaced by HY-1J..
The HY-1J is Ship-to-ship variant for Type 051 DDG.
The HY-1JA is Improved ship-to-ship variant with a new radar seeker for better anti-jamming capability and accuracy.
The HY-1A is Land-to-ship variant based on the HY-1JA.
The HY-1B is Low level target drone for the test of HQ-2A SAM.
The HJ-1YB is Target drone for the test of HQ-61 SAM.

Here is System information for the HY-4 (CSS-C-7) Sadsack Chinese Short-Range Anti-Ship Cruise Missile:
The  is .
The  is .
The  is .

Here is Missile information for the HY-4 (CSS-C-7) Sadsack Chinese Short-Range Anti-Ship Cruise Missile of the HY-4 (CSS-C-7) Sadsack Anti-Ship Cruise Missile:
The Name is HY-4; NATO: CSS-C-7 Sadsack.
The Type is Anti-Ship Cruise Missile.
The Basic Load is INA.
The Manufactuer is Nanchang Aircraft Factory (Chinese).
The Length is 7.36 m.
The Diameter is 0.76 m.
The Wingspan is 2.4 m.
The Weight, Total is 1,740 kg.
The Warhead Type is Shaped charge high explosive.
The Warhead Weight is 513 kg.
The Propulsion is one turbojet engine and one solid rocket booster.
The Speed is Mach 0.8 – 0.85.
The Range is 500 km.
The Cruising Altitude is The missile has a radar altimeter which allows the cruise height to be varied between 70 and 200 m altitude, followed by a steep dive onto the target..
The Guidanc System is Inertial + active conical scanning terminal guidance radar (early models); or inertial + monopulse active radar (later models).
The Single-Shot Kill Probability is 70%.

