This document describes the NTC VISMOD Wing Loong I Chinese Medium-Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

NTC VISMOD Wing Loong I Chinese Medium-Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV)
The Chengdu Pterodactyl, also known as Wing Loong, is a Medium-Altitude Long-Endurance (MALE) unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), developed by the Chengdu Aircraft Industry Group in the People's Republic of China. Intended for use as a surveillance and aerial reconnaissance platform, the Pterodactyl I is capable of being fitted with air-to-surface weapons for use in an unmanned combat aerial vehicle (UCAV) role. It is designed for intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance missions. The air vehicle can also be equipped with weapons for strike operations and perform civil missions such as disaster assessment, meteorological and environmental protection. The system has been compared, at least in appearance, to the U.S. MQ-1 Predator. Based on official marketing material released by CADI, the Pterodactyl can carry the BA-7 air-to-ground missile, YZ-212 laser-guided bomb, YZ-102A anti-personnel bomb and 50-kilogram LS-6 miniature guided bomb.

Here is Variants information for the NTC VISMOD Wing Loong I Chinese Medium-Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Pterosaur I is First member of Wing Loong series, with program of Wing Loong begun in May 2005. Maiden flight was completed in October 2007 and payload evaluation flight was completed a year later in October 2008. This first model of Wing Loong series lacked the bulge at the nose tip of the fuselage due to the lack of a satellite antenna, and while the English name used by the developer differed from later models, the Chinese name remains the same, and so is the name Wing Loong for the entire series. he lack of satellite antenna results in cheaper cost, with the reduction of the maximum control range around to 200 km.This model is no longer actively marketed when Pterodactyl I appeared, but is still available as a cheaper alternative up on potential customers’ request..
The Pterodactyl I is Sky Saker is a derivative of Wing Loong developed by Norinco mainly intended for export. The Chinese name is Rui Ying, meaning Sharp Eagle, but the English name adopted by the developer is Sky Saker. Sky Saker / Rui Ying carries both a miniature synthetic aperture radar and an electro-optical pod to perform reconnaissance in both the visible light and radar spectra. The capability of Sky Saker / Rui Ying has been exaggerated by many Chinese internet sources claiming that it has both scout and strike capabilities at the same time, but this has been proven to the contrary. According to all info released by Norinco itself (as of 2015), the UAV can employ only a single capability at a time: when the UAV carries the reconnaissance payload, no weaponry is carried. Similarly, when weaponry is carried, the reconnaissance payload is absent..
The SkySaker is The Sky Saker is a derivative of Wing Loong developed by Norinco mainly intended for export. The Chinese name is Rui Ying, meaning Sharp Eagle, but the English name adopted by the developer is Sky Saker. Sky Saker / Rui Ying carries both a miniature synthetic aperture radar and an electro-optical pod to perform reconnaissance in both the visible light and radar spectra. The capability of Sky Saker / Rui Ying has been exaggerated by many Chinese internet sources claiming that it has both scout and strike capabilities at the same time, but this has been proven to the contrary. According to all info released by Norinco itself (as of 2015), the UAV can employ only a single capability at a time: when the UAV carries the reconnaissance payload, no weaponry is carried. Similarly, when weaponry is carried, the reconnaissance payload is absent..
The WJ-1 is The first land attack version of Pterodactyl I, which is a weapon platform without the reconnaissance/targeting pod under the chin. The designation WJ stands for Wu-Zhuang Wu-Ren-Ji, meaning armed UAV. WJ-1 UAV made its public debut in November 2014 at the 10th Zhuhai Airshow along with its cousin GJ-1..
The GJ-1 is Another land attack version of Pterodactyl I that combines the capabilities of both Pterodactyl I and WJ-1 so that it can identify and engage targets on its own. GJ-1 can be distinguished from both Pterodactyl I and WJ-1 in that GJ-1 has both the reconnaissance/targeting pod under the chin as well as hardpoints to carry weapons. The designation GJ stands for Gong-Ji Wu-Ren-Ji, meaning "attack UAV." GJ-1 UAV made its public debut in November 2014 at the 10th Zhuhai Airshow along with its cousin WJ-1.
The Wing Loong II is An upgraded variant of the Wing Loong, with provisions for up to twelve air-to-surface missiles. Officially entered service with the PLAAF in November 2018. Wing Loong II is known in PLAAF service as the Gongji-2 ('Attack 2' or GJ-2)..
The Wing Loong ID is Upgraded variant of the Wing Loong I, with improved aerodynamics and engine enabling greater takeoff weight, service ceiling, and endurance. Other upgrades include both internal and external stores, as well as communications equipment. The variant launched in 2018 with Egypt being the first buyer of 32 systems. The variant achieved its first flight on 23 December 2018.

Here is System information for the NTC VISMOD Wing Loong I Chinese Medium-Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is NTC VISMOD Wing Loong I Chinese Medium-Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Type is Medium-Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is Chengdu Aircraft Industry Group.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Avionics is AN/ZPY-1 STAR Lite Radar.
The Payload Capacity is Up to four HELLFIRE missiles.

Here is Dimensions information for the NTC VISMOD Wing Loong I Chinese Medium-Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is 8.53 m.
The Wingspan is 17 m.
The Height is 2.1 m.
The Maximum Takeoff Weight is 1,633 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the NTC VISMOD Wing Loong I Chinese Medium-Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is 1 × Thielert Centurion 1.7.
The Engine Type is Heavy-Fuel Engine.
The Engine Power is 165 hp.
The Maximum Speed is 309 km/h.
The Maximum Distance is INA.
The Ceiling is 7,620 m.
The Endurance is 27-plus hours (ER: 40-plus hours).

Here is Armament information for the NTC VISMOD Wing Loong I Chinese Medium-Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Hardpoints is 4.
The Missiles is 4 × AGM-114 Hellfire or 8 × AIM-92 Stinger.
The Bombs is 4 × GBU-44/B Viper Strike.

