This document describes the Eagle V Swiss 4x4 Reconnaissance Vehicle.

The Eagle V Swiss 4x4 Reconnaissance Vehicle is a further development of the Eagle IV with a larger payload capacity, internal volume and increased crew protection, while providing the same mobility. The vehicles can be optimized for different missions with the application of modular add-on kits. It is available in 4 x 4 and 6 x 6 variants. The former was made public in 2010 and the latter in 2012. The two variants are about 80 percent common.
The 4 x 4 version accommodates a driver and three to five troops. A cargo version has a two-seat cab. Payload capacity is 7,275 lb (3,300 kg) to 7,940 lb (3,600 kg).

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Denmark, Germany, Switzerland.

Here is Variants information for the Eagle V Swiss 4x4 Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Eagle I is INA.
The Eagle II Reconnaissance Vehicle is This variant is slightly heavier than the Eagle I with a better power-to-weight ratio. The chassis is based on the enhanced capability vehicle (ECV) Humvee. It is fitted with a metal and composite armor shell capable of withstanding NATO Standard Agreement (STANAG) Level II or III threats. A Mowag armored MBk2 observation cupola is fitted..
The Eagle III Artillery Forward Observation Vehicle is This vehicle is used for target surveillance, acquisition, observation, reconnaissance and patrol missions. It carries a crew of four (driver, surveyor, forward observer and signals operator). Panoramic bulletproof windows ring the vehicle, which is fitted with a raised roof. It is protected by high-hardness armored steel and composite armor. Additional mine protection is available as an option..
The Eagle IV Military Tactical Vehicle is The military tactical vehicle is suited as a platform for mission roles such as reconnaissance, surveillance, command or military police tasks. It is based on the advanced Mowag Duro 3 chassis technology with roll stabilizer and the De-Dion axle system. Along with the permanent all-wheel drive system, the roll stabilizer and axle system help give the vehicle high off- and on-road mobility..
The Eagle V is This is a further development of the Eagle IV with a larger payload capacity, internal volume and increased crew protection, while providing the same mobility. The vehicles can be optimized for different missions with the application of modular add-on kits. It is available in 4 x 4 and 6 x 6 variants. The former was made public in 2010 and the latter in 2012. The two variants are about 80 percent common..
The Eagle BAT ambulance is This ambulance accommodates an emergency doctor, rescue assistant and a driver/paramedic. The vehicle permits patient transport and emergency treatment under protection..
The Eagle V 6 x 6 is The is a 6 x6 compact off-road vehicle powered by a six-cylinder turbo-diesel engine coupled to a five-speed automatic transmission and a two-stage transfer case..
The VERO robotics kit is Developed by Ruag Defence in Switzerland, this is a robotics kit that can be retrofitted onto the Eagle IV, among other vehicles..

Here is System information for the Eagle V Swiss 4x4 Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Alternative Designation is Eagle V.
The Type is Reconnaissance Vehicle.
The Manufacturer is General Dynamics European Land Systems-Mowag, Kreuzlingen, Switzerland
 General Dynamics European land Systems-Germany, Kaiserslautern, Germany.
The Family is Eagle Series.
The Crew is 6 max.
The Passenger Capacity is INA.

Here is Dimensions information for the Eagle V Swiss 4x4 Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Length is 5.40 m.
The Width is 2.20 m.
The Height is 2.32 m.
The Weight, Combat is 7,400 kg.
The Ground Clearance is 0.40 m.
The Wheelbase is 3.53 m.
The Internal Protected Volume is 6 cu m.
The Gross Weight is 10,000 kg.
The Payload is 3,000 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Eagle V Swiss 4x4 Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Engine Name is 1 x Cummins ISB 6.7E3245.
The Engine Type is Turbocharged Diesel.
The Engine Power is 245 hp (183 kW).
The Fuel Capacity is 180 liters.
The Transmission is Allison 2500 SP 5-speed automatic.
The Range is 700.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 110.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.
The Fording Depth is 1.2 m.
The Gradient is 60 percent.
The Side Slope is 40 percent.
The Vertical Step is 0.4 m.
The Trench is 0.5 m.
The Turning Diameter is 15.0 m.
The Angle of Approach is 42 deg.
The Angle of Departure is 45 deg.

Here is Main Gun information for the Eagle V Swiss 4x4 Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Note is The vehicle can be armed with a remotely operated weapon station armed with weapons up to 12.7-mm machine guns..

Here is Fire Control information for the Eagle V Swiss 4x4 Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is No.
The Main Gun Stabilization is No.

Here is Protection information for the Eagle V Swiss 4x4 Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Hull Armor is Protection against 5.56-mm and 7.62-mm ball ammo from 33 yds (30 m) and up; and protection against 7.62-mm steel jacket ammo from 109 yds (100 m) and up.
The Turret Armor is Protection against 5.56-mm and 7.62-mm ball ammo from 33 yds (30 m) and up; and protection against 7.62-mm steel jacket ammo from 109 yds (100 m) and up.
The Applique Armor is Available, The Eagle IV is armored with composite plates mounted to the inner face of aluminum plates to provide a high-level of ballistic protection. A non-armored version is also available..
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is No.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The NBC Protection is Yes, An NBC overpressure system is fitted..
The Smoke Equipment is Yes, 6 x smoke-grenade launchers facing rear from turret.

