This document describes the Shanyi 30 Chinese Amphibious Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).

The Shanyi 30 Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) has been developed for urban counter-terrorism, CBRNE, CASEVAC, fire support for dismounted troops, and ISTAR. The platform can operate in a swarm with other Shanyi 30 UGVs either co-operatively or independently to complete different missions.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is System information for the Shanyi 30 Chinese Amphibious Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Alternative Designation is Shanyi 30.
The Type is Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).
The Manufacturer is Zhong Tian Guide Control Technology Co Ltd.
The Configuration is Tracked.
The Mission is The platform has been developed for urban counter-terrorism, CBRNE, CASEVAC, fire support for dismounted troops, and ISTAR..
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Control is Control of the unit is carried out by a standard portable control unit or by command vehicle..
The Software is The Shanyi 30 platform can be used as part of a swarming operability to allow a number of UGVs to operate together..
The Camera is The unit can be equipped with a PTZ camera..
The Maximum Payload on Ground is 30 kg.
The Maximum Payload on Water is 15 kg.
The Environmental is IP67.

Here is Dimensions information for the Shanyi 30 Chinese Amphibious Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Length is 1.12 m.
The Width is 0.62 m.
The Height is 0.34 m.
The Track Width is 110 mm.
The Weight is 50 kg.
The Ground Clearance is 85 –170 mm.

Here is Automotive information for the Shanyi 30 Chinese Amphibious Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Main Power is 24 V/40 Ah polymer lithium battery.
The Auxiliary Power is 12 V/5 A, 5 V/8 A.
The Motor is 350 W.
The Range is INA.
The Maximum Land Speed is 35 km/h.
The Maximum Amphibious Speed is 3 km/h.
The Maximum Gradient Climb is 35˚.
The Side Slope is 25˚.
The Vertical Obstacle Avoidance is 240 mm.
The Trench Crossing Width is 450 mm.
The Endurance is 2 hours.

Here is Manipulator Arm information for the Shanyi 30 Chinese Amphibious Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Note is Robotic arms can be mounted to the upper part of the robot..

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Shanyi 30 Chinese Amphibious Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Note is Shanyi 30 can be armed with a 12.7 mm MG or individual heavy weapons such as anti-tank missiles and rockets..

Here is Protection information for the Shanyi 30 Chinese Amphibious Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is INA.

