This document describes the PTKM-1R Russian Anti-Vehicle Mine.

The PTKM-1R Russian Anti-Vehicle Mine is a top-attack anti-vehicle landmine was recently employed in Ukraine. The PTKM-1R is distinct from conventional anti-vehicle mines in its ability to attack the top of an armored vehicle. The top of a tank or other armored fighting vehicle (AFV) is typically fitted with thinner armor than its front or sides—hence the top is almost always the most vulnerable aspect of an armored vehicle.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation, Ukraine.

Here is System information for the PTKM-1R Russian Anti-Vehicle Mine:
The Alternate Designation is PTKM-1R.
The Type is Top-Attack Anti-Vehicle Mine.
The Manufacturer is Rosoboronexport JSC.
The Sensors is The PTKM-1R’s transporter-launcher is equipped with acoustic and seismic sensors that detect a target by the sound it makes and the ground vibrations it induces. The target is identified by comparing a target’s acoustic and seismic signature with an internal database. The two sets of sensors allow the mine to detect a target vehicle at a distance of 100 meters. Once the target is within 50 meters (and not closer than 5 meters), the necessary flight path of the warhead is calculated. Next, the unit is tilted towards the target and the submunition launched. The submunition is projected to approximately 30 m above the ground. Using infrared and radar sensors, the submunition scans the ground and, once it is over the target, engages it..
The Explosively Formed Penetrator (EFP) is The submunition employs an Explosively Formed Penetrator (EFP) to engage the target. An EFP is a metal slug that is formed and accelerated towards a target by an explosion. The PTKM-1R’s EFP is reported to be able to defeat up to 70 mm of armor..
The Armor Penetration is 70 mm.
The Self-Destruction Time is 1 - 10 days.
The Note is The PTKM-1R is distinct from conventional anti-vehicle mines in its ability to attack the top of an armored vehicle. The top of a tank or other armored fighting vehicle (AFV) is typically fitted with thinner armor than its front or sides—hence the top is almost always the most vulnerable aspect of an armored vehicle..

Here is Dimensions information for the PTKM-1R Russian Anti-Vehicle Mine:
The Length is INA.
The Height is 510 mm.
The Diameter is 220 mm.
The Weight is 19.9 kg.
The Explosive Fill Weight is 2.8 kg.

