This document describes the Type 654 Chinese Armored Recovery Vehicle.

Based on the Type 90 MBT, the Type 654 Armored Recovery Vehicle was developed as a support vehicle to the Type 90s sold to Pakistan.  

The Type 654 is similar to the Type 90 tank, but has a new all-welded superstructure designed for the repair and recovery role. The stabilizer blade is hydraulically operated and is mounted at the front of the vehicle and operated by the driver from his position in the vehicle.

The dozer blade can be used to remove battlefield obstacles and prepare firing positions though it is most often used to stabilize the vehicle while the crane or winch are being used. The blade can clear a maximum of 4,240 cu ft (120 cu m) of soil per hour.

Also hydraulic, the crane is mounted on the right side of the chassis with a maximum lifting capacity of 25,000 kg. The crane is pivoted at the front of the chassis and is traversed to the rear when not in use. The crane is very helpful in conducting battlefield damage repair but, can be used for routine maintenance as well..

The primary hydraulic winch is at the front of the vehicle and has a maximum pulling force of 82 tons. This allows it to recover all current Chinese-produced armored vehicles.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China, Pakistan.

Here is System information for the Type 654 Chinese Armored Recovery Vehicle:
The Alternative Designation is Type 90-II ARRV.
The Manufacturer is China North Industries Corp. (NORINCO), Beijing, China
Heavy Defense Industries (HDI), Taxila, Pakistan.
The Crew is 5.
The Passenger Capacity is NA.
The Chassis is Type 90.
The Blade Characteristics is Hydraulic.
The Crane Characteristics is Hydraulic (On right side of the hull and forward).
The Crane Capacity is 25,000.
The Addition Equipment is Auxiliary winch, tools, tow bars, and cables.
The Winch Capabilities is Maximum pulling force of 82 tons with pulley.  41 tons without the pulley..

Here is Dimensions information for the Type 654 Chinese Armored Recovery Vehicle:
The Length is 8.83.
The Width is 3.4.
The Height is 2.4.
The Weight, Combat is 47,500.

Here is Automotive information for the Type 654 Chinese Armored Recovery Vehicle:
The Engine Name is 6TD-2.
The Engine Type is Water-cooled, turbocharged, after cooled,                               4-stroke, 8-cyl diesel.
The Engine Power is 1,200.
The Cruising Range is 500.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 70.
The Speed, Off Road is 50.
The Gradient is 60.
The Side Slope is INA.
The Vertical Step is .85m.
The Trench is 3m.
The Fording Depth is 5m with snorkel.

Here is Protection information for the Type 654 Chinese Armored Recovery Vehicle:
The Armor, Hull Rear is INA.
The Armor, Hull Top is INA.
The Armor, Glacis is INA.
The Mine Clearing is Limited with blade.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is Yes, It can clear a maximum of 120 cu m of soil per hour.
The NBC Protection is Over-pressure system, anti-neutron inner liner.
The Smoke Equipment is 8, 76mm, electronically operated smoke grenade launchers IVO the driver's position.
The Add on Armor is Panel of composite armor can be fitted to the glacis and turret front.

