This document describes the HQ-22 Chinese Long-Range Air Defense Missile System.

The HQ-22, also known as FK-3, is a long-range air defense system developed by China to engage a wide range of aerial targets at ranges of up to 170 kilometers. The missile system has been designed to engage fourth generation aircraft, helicopters, cruise missiles and drones as well as a variety of aerodynamic threats. Besides, the new weapon system has been designed to withstand to electronic countermeasures and operate in heavy jamming environments. This new air defense system relies on 8x8 vehicles that transport four vertically launched missiles each. The HQ-22 long-range surface-to-air missile system was unveiled at the China Airshow 2016.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is System information for the HQ-22 Chinese Long-Range Air Defense Missile System:
The Alternative Designation is HQ-22.
The Type is Long-Range Air Defense Missile System.
The Crew is INA.
The Chassis is The launcher is based on a Hanyang special chassis with 8x8 configuration..
The Mission is The HQ-22 air defense system can engage aircraft, helicopters, UAVs, ballistic and cruise missiles..
The Displacement Time is INA.
The Emplacement Time is INA.
The Note is A typical battery of HQ-22 includes 3 launcher vehicles. A battery can engage 6 air targets simultaneously..

Here is Dimensions information for the HQ-22 Chinese Long-Range Air Defense Missile System:
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Weight, Combat is INA.

Here is Automotive information for the HQ-22 Chinese Long-Range Air Defense Missile System:
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is INA.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Cruising Range is INA.
The Maximum Road Speed is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.

Here is Missile System information for the HQ-22 Chinese Long-Range Air Defense Missile System:
The Name is INA.
The Missile Length is 7 m.
The Missile Diameter is 0.7 m.
The Missile Weight is 1 300 kg.
The Warhead Type is HE-FRAG.
The Warhead Weight is 180 kg.
The Guidance System is Semi-Active GPS.
The Maximum Ceiling is 27 km.
The Maximum Range is 100 km.
The Note is The complex (three PU) is able to fire 12 missiles on six targets simultaneously..

Here is Fire Control System information for the HQ-22 Chinese Long-Range Air Defense Missile System of the Fire Control:
The Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is Yes.
The Direct Fire is No.
The Indirect Fire is Yes.

Here is Radar information for the HQ-22 Chinese Long-Range Air Defense Missile System of the Fire Control:
The Name is INA.

Here is Protection information for the HQ-22 Chinese Long-Range Air Defense Missile System:
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is No.
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is No.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is No.

