This document describes the T38 Stilet Belarusian Short-Range Air Defense System.

The T38 STILET is a short-range air defence missile system (ADMS) designed and built by Tetraedr to provide enhanced combat and performance capabilities to air defence units.

The system, which is a modernised version of OSA-1T ADMS, can be deployed to strike all types of aerial platforms moving at low and medium altitudes. It is integrated with radars to acquire and identify targets while on the move and at halt.

Up to two missiles are used by the ADMS to engage a target from short halt or from stationary position. It can be lifted by an IL-76-class cargo aircraft and transported by rail.

The development of T38 STILET missile system began in 2008. It was later exhibited at the IDEX 2011 (International Defence Exhibition and Conference) in Abu Dhabi as well as at the MILEX 2014 (Exhibition of Armaments and Military Equipment) in Republic of Belarus.

The T38 STILET air defence missile system first performed five live firings at the 174 training test range of the Air Force and Air Defense of the Republic of Belarus in October 2010. It did this using the 9М33М3 missiles. During the tests, the weapons successfully destroyed high-velocity, small-sized IVTs-M1 aerial target simulators.

A year later, in October 2011, the ADMS successfully engaged two small-sized high-velocity IVTs-M1 aerial target simulators and three angle reflectors.

Tetraedr demonstrated combat mission readiness of the T38 STILET missile system with the 9M33M2(3) surface-to-air missiles during integration tactical military exercise conducted by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Belarus in February 2014.

SHARE
TYPE
Short-range air defence missile system
MANUFACTURER
Tetraedr
CREW
Four
NUMBER OF MISSILES CARRIED
EightExpand
T38 Stilet ADMS

The T38 STILET is a short-range air defence missile system (ADMS) designed and built by Tetraedr to provide enhanced combat and performance capabilities to air defence units.

The system, which is a modernised version of OSA-1T ADMS, can be deployed to strike all types of aerial platforms moving at low and medium altitudes. It is integrated with radars to acquire and identify targets while on the move and at halt.

Up to two missiles are used by the ADMS to engage a target from short halt or from stationary position. It can be lifted by an IL-76-class cargo aircraft and transported by rail.

The development of T38 STILET missile system began in 2008. It was later exhibited at the IDEX 2011 (International Defence Exhibition and Conference) in Abu Dhabi as well as at the MILEX 2014 (Exhibition of Armaments and Military Equipment) in Republic of Belarus.

Test firings of T38 STILET ADMS
S-125-2TM / Pechora-2TM Medium Range Air Defence Missile System
S-125-2TM is an upgraded version of S-125 / Pechora air defence missile system (ADMS).

The T38 STILET air defence missile system first performed five live firings at the 174 training test range of the Air Force and Air Defense of the Republic of Belarus in October 2010. It did this using the 9М33М3 missiles. During the tests, the weapons successfully destroyed high-velocity, small-sized IVTs-M1 aerial target simulators.

A year later, in October 2011, the ADMS successfully engaged two small-sized high-velocity IVTs-M1 aerial target simulators and three angle reflectors.

Tetraedr demonstrated combat mission readiness of the T38 STILET missile system with the 9M33M2(3) surface-to-air missiles during integration tactical military exercise conducted by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Belarus in February 2014.

T38 missile system mounted on T381 CV
The T38 STILET missile system is mounted on the T381 Combat Vehicle (CV), which is operated by a crew of four. The highly-mobile vehicle features MZKT-69222T self-propelled wheeled chassis driven by a powerful diesel engine.

An electro-optical system is fitted on the vehicle, as is navigation and communication systems, map-positioning, air conditioning and a heating system. It also comes with an automatic launch system and launch device, electric power supply system and functional check and combat crew training equipment. A digital master computer and crew commander’s automated workstation can also be found on-board the CV.

The combat vehicle is further fitted with target acquisition radar, target tracking radar, two-channel missile sighting radar and two-channel command-transmit radar.

The T38 STILET air defence missile system can carry up to eight T382 surface-to-air guided missiles in the Transportation-and-Launch Container (TLC). The two-stage, bi-calibre and solid-propellant missile features a power unit consisting of a booster and a sustainer. A radio fuse installed in the missile ensures effective destruction of the target by actuating a non-contact explosion of the warhead.

Targets flying at a maximum speed of 900m/s, at altitudes varying between 25m and 10km, can be destroyed by the missile system. It can also detect targets within a range of 40km, whilst the maximum slant range of target destruction is 20km.

A maximum cross range of 10km can be achieved by the ADMS. The probability of killing the target with one missile is 90%. The system is also capable of detecting targets with minimal radar cross section of 0.03m² and has an emplacement / displacement time of five minutes.

The T38 STILET air defence missile system uses the T383 Transportation and Loading Vehicle (TLV) for loading and unloading missiles to/from containers. It also provides transportation for missiles and temporary storage. The T385 maintenance vehicle is utililised to carry out maintenance of the combat vehicle.

Other technical support assets of the missile system include T384 alignment vehicle, T386 automated mobile check-up and testing station along with the T387 Ground Equipment Kit (GEK).

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Azerbaijan, Belarus, China.

Here is Variants information for the T38 Stilet Belarusian Short-Range Air Defense System:
The Note is There was a variant of the T38 Stilet air defense system co-developed with Ukrainian Luch design bureau. This missile would use a new Belarusian missile, developed by the Tetraedr. However in 2014 this development was suspended due to ongoing military conflict in Ukraine..

Here is System information for the T38 Stilet Belarusian Short-Range Air Defense System:
The Alternative Designation is T38 Stilet.
The Type is Short-Range Air Defense System.
The Crew is 4.
The Chassis is The T38 uses new MZKT-6922 chassis.
The Displacement Time is 5.
The Emplacement Time is 5.
The Fire on the Move is INA.
The Note is Battery of the T38 Stilet comprises of TELAR vehicles, and is supported by 6 KamAZ trucks, that are used as a basis for mobile command center, reloading vehicle, maintenance vehicle and other support vehicles..

Here is Dimensions information for the T38 Stilet Belarusian Short-Range Air Defense System:
The Length is 9.
The Width is 3.3.
The Height is 5.1.
The Weight, Combat is 30 tons.

Here is Automotive information for the T38 Stilet Belarusian Short-Range Air Defense System:
The Engine Name is YaMZ-7513.10-04.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 420.
The Operational Range is 840.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 80.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.
The Gradient is INA.
The Side Slope is INA.
The Vertical Step is 0.58.
The Trench is 0.6.
The Fording Depth is INA.

Here is Missile information for the T38 Stilet Belarusian Short-Range Air Defense System of the Missile System:
The Name is 9M33M3 Missile.
The Type is Surface-to-Air Missile.
The Length is 3158 mm.
The Diameter is 209.6 mm.
The Weight is 170 kg.
The Warhead is Frag-HE.
The Warhead Weight is 16 Kg.
The Detonation Mechanism is Contact and proximity.
The Propellant is Solid propellant rocket motor.
The Operational Range is 12.5 - 20.
The Flight Altitude is 12,000 metres.
The Boost Time is 2 s boost, then 15 s sustain.
The Speed is 1020 m/s.
The Guidance System is Command to Line-Of-Sight (CLOS).
The Steering System is dual-thrust rocket motor..
The Accuracy is 5 m.

Here is Fire Control System information for the T38 Stilet Belarusian Short-Range Air Defense System of the Fire Control:
The Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is Yes.
The Direct Fire is Yes.
The Indirect Fire is Yes.
The Fire Control Sensors is INA.
The Probability of Kill is 90%.
The Note is he system is also capable of detecting targets with minimal radar cross section of 0.03m² and has an emplacement / displacement time of five minutes..

Here is Radar information for the T38 Stilet Belarusian Short-Range Air Defense System of the Fire Control:
The Note is The combat vehicle is further fitted with target acquisition radar, target tracking radar, two-channel missile sighting radar and two-channel command-transmit radar..

Here is Protection information for the T38 Stilet Belarusian Short-Range Air Defense System:
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Turret Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is No.
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is INA.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

