This document describes the Supercam S150 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The Supercam S150 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) combines optimum capabilities for a wide range of tasks. The aircraft's wingspan is 1.5 meters, while the modular design with removable wing panels allows carrying it in a disassembled state in a small backpack case. S150 is one of the most compact Supercam UAVs while having higher performance characteristics than competitors with similar dimensions. The UAV endurance is 2 hours. The radio link range is up to 50 km, and the video transmission range is up to 25 km via a secure broadband digital video link. Supercam S150 is equipped with cutting-edge optoelectronic systems, vision systems, and automatic target tracking systems. In addition to surveillance and reconnaissance application at any time of the day, Supercam S150 UAS is perfect for high-precision terrain aerial photography. Dual frequency GNSS equipment, 24 to 42 MP cameras, and multispectral cameras of well-known brands designed for agriculture applications can be installed onboard the UAV. Simultaneous operation of several payloads is also possible.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is System information for the Supercam S150 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is Supercam S150.
The Type is Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is Supercam Unmanned Systems Group.
The Autonomy is Semi-Autonomous.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Radio Link Range is up to 30 km.
The Video Transmission Range is up to 25 km.
The Payload Options is - 20/24/42 MP photo camera with the ability to be mounted on the azimuth stabilized platform
- Gyro-stabilized thermal imaging camera and/or PAL or HD video camera with 10х optical zoom, that can be combined together, and optionally enhanced with a laser target marker
- Multispectral camera.
The Deployment Time is 10 min.
The Launching System is elastic catapult.
The Recovery System is with a parachute in automatic or semi-automatic mode.
The Operational Temperature is -40°С to +45°С.
The Accessories is - Automatic target tracking module
- Dual (triple) system, dual-frequency geodetic receiver
- Video link for digital broadband transmission within a range of up to 25 km
- Radio link of telemetry and control with the ability of FHSS operation.

Here is Dimensions information for the Supercam S150 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is INA.
The Wingspan is 1.5 m.
The Height is INA.
The Maximum Takeoff Weight is 5.5 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Supercam S150 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Battery.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 120 km/h.
The Cruising Speed is INA.
The Operational Height is INA.
The Maximum Distance is 110 km.
The Maximum Windspeed is 15 m/s.
The Endurance is 2 hours.

