This document describes the QW Family (QW-1, QW-2, QW-3) of Chinese Man-Portable Infrared Guided Surface-to-Air Missiles.

Hezbollah Proliferation. The QW-1 (Qianwei-Advanced Guard) Vanguard infrared-guided surface-to-air missile (SAM) is similar in appearance to the U.S. FIM-92 Stinger. It was first developed as a replacement for the HN-5 shoulder-launched SAM (the Chinese version of the Russian SA-7 Grail), but is also can be deployed on light helicopters.

The missile is similar in appearance to the Stinger, though it has only two forward control fins compared to the Stinger's four. It has four cropped delta wings at the rear. It is carried in a launch canister, the wings kept folded and deploying after launch. The nose is rounded and blunt.

There is a slight taper at the tail of the missile where the rear wings are located, just forward of the launch booster. The QW-1 is easily identified by the vertically mounted cylindrical battery/coolant module.

The missile can be shoulder-fired, launched from tripod or vehicle- or ship-mounted launcher. The missile reportedly can maneuver at up to 16 Gs.

Guidance consists of a cooled, two-color infrared (IR) seeker with IR Counter-Counter Measures. The missile includes a short-lasting boost phase to clear it from the canister, after which the booster is discarded and the sustainer motor activates.

The QW-1 is operated by a two-man-team. The gunner carries the missile, while the operator conducts target detection tasks. Once a target is visually detected, a suitable launch location is selected and the end caps are removed from the launcher.

The gunner activates the battery and the coolant, cooling the infrared seeker to the operating temperature. At that point, the gunner tracks the target until the missile locks on, which is indicated by a flashing light and a tone. The missile is fired and then the infrared seeker activates for terminal guidance.

Initial operational capability (IOC) was reached in 1992 as a shoulder-launched anti-aircraft missile. It was first displayed and offered for export in 1994. There is no confirmation that the missile is serving as an Air to Air Missile (AAM). A naval SAM version has also been reported.

An improved variant, the QW-2 AAM, was first offered for export in 1998 and began production in 1999. The QW-2 entered service in 2000.

Bangladesh manufactures the QW-2 under license for its ground and naval forces. The missile is replacing the HN-5A system in Bangladeshi service.

In 2008, the Indonesian air force ordered 26 QW-3 man-portable air defense systems and a number of missiles. Indonesian marines also utilize QW-3 missile systems mounted on 4 x 4 vehicles. The air force in 2008 also placed a US$35 million order for two TD-2000B combined gun and missile short-range air defense systems utilizing QW-3 missiles.

In September 2009, Indonesia announced that it would acquire QW-3 missiles for the Paskhas special air force unit.

QW-2 Vanguards were photographed in South Sudan in service with the Sudanese People’s Liberation Army (SPLA), according to Armament Research Services in mid-January of 2015. (The SPLA, formerly a guerrilla group, kept the same name as the nation's regular army)


Ref: Military Periscope, October 2017

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Bangladesh, China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Non-State Actors, Pakistan, South Sudan.

Here is Variants information for the QW Family (QW-1, QW-2, QW-3) of Chinese Man-Portable Infrared Guided Surface-to-Air Missiles:
The QW-1M is QW-1M is a development of QW-1, and first revealed in Zhuhai Air Show. The missile is considered as a third generation MANPAD by Chinese, and many domestic Chinese media sources claim that it is the Chinese equivalent of Soviet SA-18 Grouse, which it strongly resembles. Like its predecessor QW-1, QW-1M also appeared to incorporate technologies of FIM-92 Stinger. Various western sources have postulated that China had likely obtained FIM-92 Stinger samples from either Afghan guerrilla or Pakistan, or even Iran, but such claims have yet to be confirmed. The missile is slightly heavier than QW-1, weighing at 18 kg for the entire system, and it is claimed to have better ECCM capability and better capability to engage low-flying aircraft in comparison to QW-1. Some have been supplied to Kata'ib Hezbollah..
The QW-1A is QW-1A is a derivative of QW-1M, with the adaptation of man-portable radar weighing 30 kg and a range of 15 km, and it is carried by the observer. The associating fire control system enables various QW-1A units to be linked up and thus increasing the effectiveness by forming an air defense network, which in turn, could be integrated into large air defense network. Although the entire QW-1A system including radar / fire control system could be carried by a crew of 2-men team, it is often mounted on vehicles..
The QW-11 (QW-1G) is QW-11 is a development of QW family that is specifically designed to engage terrain hugging cruise missiles, while retaining the capability of engaging low-flying aircraft. QW-11 was first revealed at Zhuhai Air Show in 2002. A new combined impact and proximity fuze is developed to provide better capability against cruise missiles.

Length: 1.477 m
Missile weight: 10.69 kg
System weight: 16.9 kg
Warhead: 1.42 kg
Range: 0.5 – 5000 m
Altitude: 30 m - 4 km
Reaction time: 10 sec.
The QW-11G is Improved version of QW-11 with enhanced ECCM capability was displayed at same Zhuai Air Show with QW-11 in 2002. The suffix G stands for Gaijin or Gailiang in Chinese, meaning improvement. The QW-11G system does not have dimensional changes physically so that QW-11 missile can be directly used for QW-11G..
The QW-18 is QW-18 is the development of the QW-11G with an improved seeker. QW-18 first appeared in Zhuai Air Show with QW-11 and QW-11G in 2002. An enhanced dual band infrared seeker is developed so that the target is not only tracked via the exhaust heat, but also the temperature difference of the skin of the target. These improvements provided better capabilities against terrain-hugging cruise missiles at supersonic speed. Externally, QW-18 is identical to QW-11G / QW-11..
The QW-2 is QW-2 is a missile with all aspect attack capability and improved ECCM capability. There are two types of seeker for QW-2: the first is the dual band infrared passive seeker first revealed in 1998, and an imaging IR (ImIR) seeker has been designed sometimes later. The fuse is similar to that of QW-18. The minimum altitude is decreased to 10 m, thus further improving the capability against low-flying cruise missile and hovering helicopters that suddenly pop up from hiding..
The QW-3 is This is the Chinese equivalent of French Mistral missile, with fuse developed from that of QW-2. The missile is unique among Chinese MANPAD in that this is the only surface-to-air missile that adopts the semi-active laser guidance similar to AGM-114 Hellfire. The gyro stabilized seeker provides very high degree of accuracy and is extremely effective against low altitude cruise missiles. The 15 degrees per second tracking rate of the seeker is relatively low in comparison for other MANPAD for supersonic targets in high g maneuver at very high altitudes, but this is by no means handicapping the performance because such targets are not intended to be for QW-3, which is specifically designed to engage terrain hugging helicopters and UAV's and other fast flying targets at extremely low altitudes, including supersonic sea skimming cruise missiles..
The QW-4 is The newest member of QW series with the fuze similar to that of QW-2, and a new thermal imaging seeker. The new fully electric control surfaces provide smoother flight path curves, thus greatly improved accuracy..
The Anza Mk 2 is This is the Pakistani version of the QW-1. There are no known differences in performance. It entered service in 1994..
The Anza Mk 3 is This is a Pakistani variant of the QW-2..
The CQW-2 is Vehicle mounted version of QW-2 mounted on a 4 x 4 high mobility armored vehicle with three crew members: commander, driver and gunner. The fire control systems mainly consisted of radar and electro-optical system. Once the target is acquired by radar, it is passed to the electro-optical system for tracking and engagement. The onboard system allows the gunner to fire either a single missile or two missiles at a time, and there is a total of 8 missiles. Inside the vehicle, there are another additional 8 missiles for reload. The missiles of CQW-2 are interchangeable with that of MANPAD version, but they cannot be directly interchanged in the field. The prefix C standards for Che-zai in Chinese, meaning vehicle mounted..
The TB-1 is TB-1 is a missile derived from QW series, first revealed at the 8th Zhuhai Airshow held in the 4th Quarter of 2010 by its developer, China Aerospace Science & Industry Corporation. TB-1 utilizes the airframe of QW-1/2 and the seeker of QW-3, and thus has the same diameter of QW-1/2 and the main stage of QW-3, around 70 millimeter.

TB-1 is designed to engage both aerial and ground targets by adopting a specially designed shaped charge armor-piercing blast-fragmentation warhead, so that it can successfully destroy armored vehicles and light tanks, in addition to aerial targets QW-1/2/3 could destroy. At its public debut, a twin launcher was shown..
The FLS-1 is Naval version of QW-3 with launcher looks very similar to that of RIM-116 Rolling Airframe Missile externally. Although many Chinese media sources claim that it is the equivalent of RIM-116 Rolling Airframe Missile, with the total weight less than a ton (a single launcher containing missiles). When QW-3 missiles are used, the FLS-1 system actually lacks the fire-and-forget capability of the RAM. However, the FLS-1 system can also be used to deploy the infrared guided TY-90, and thus becoming a fire-and-forget capable SAM system like American RIM-116 Rolling Airframe Missile. The fire control system includes radar and electro-optics, that can be either dedicated or utilizing the existing systems on board the naval vessel. The FLS-1 system with QW-3 missiles has been retrofitted to fast attack craft of the PLAN, but FLS-1 system with TY-90 has not entered services (as of 2008) despite successfully completing acceptance tests and receiving state certification.

Although naval versions of other members of QW family have been successfully developed, they were not accepted into service with the exception of FLS-1. Instead, the Chinese deploy other QW missiles in the similar way United States Navy deploys FIM-92 Stinger missiles on board ships: sailors and marines on board ships were organized into MANPAD Gunnery Detachment to station on board ships, and fire the missile like the way the missiles are shoulder-fired on land..
The FLV-1 is Vehicle mounted version for all QW series of missiles, development of CQW-2. In addition to QW series of missiles, other Chinese built MANPAD missiles such as HN-5 series and FN-6 series can also be used (though for QW-3, the launcher must be modified to accommodate the larger missile). The missiles are also mounted a high mobility 4 x 4 armored vehicle with same configuration, and the speed of the vehicle is greater than 85 km per hour and range is slightly greater than 600 km. The fire control system also works in the way similar to that of CQW-2, and the radar of FLV-1 has a range of 18+ km. The reaction of the entire system is less than 8 seconds. The missiles of FLV-1 can be directly removed from the vehicle mount and rapidly used by infantry in the field as shoulder fired missiles.

Vehicle speed: > 85 km / hour
Vehicle range: > 600 km
Radar range: > 18 km
Missile: Configuration of 2, 4, or 8 (usually 8)
Reload: 8 total
Reaction time: < 8 seconds.
The FLG-1 is Development of FLV-1 with upgraded C4I system so that in addition to the missiles of FLV-1, up to half a dozen towed anti-aircraft artillery could also be controlled at the same time. Since the towed anti-aircraft artillery lacked fire control system and the FLV-1 system lacks any guns, the combined anti-aircraft artillery and air defense missile system overcomes the disadvantage for both and greatly improved the performance in comparison to separate individual system. The FLG-1 system can be integrated into larger air defense network..
The FL-2000(V) is FL-2000(V) (short for Flying Leopard 2000 Vehicle mounted) is the latest member which first made its public debut in China at the end of 2004 during the 5th Zhuhai Airshow. FL-2000(V) is a development of FLG-1 which utilizes modular design concept, enabling the system to incorporate a wide range of missiles and systems developed earlier. Laser designator is added the existing fire control system (FCS) so that the semi-active laser guided QW-3 can be directly used in the air defense system, instead of having to modify the earlier FCS first. Another significant improvement over FLG-1 is that FL-2000(V) incorporates the land-based version of FLS-1, and due to the modular design, the land-based version FLS-1 system is interchangeable with other land based system, and thus can be mounted on same chassis. FL-2000(V) system consists of 3 versions, FL-2000A, FL-2000B and FL-2000C. The A version is the basic model, with each vehicle has its own FCS, controlling missiles carried and AAA assigned. The B version incorporates a command vehicle so that several A versions and associating AAA can be integrated as a network to fight together. The C version incorporates TY-90 missile, further expanding capability..
The TD-2000 is At the 7th Zhuhai Airshow held at the end of 2008, China National Precision Machinery Import and Export Corporation (CNPMIEC) revealed a new family of mobile SAM system based on QW-4. The new SAM systems in dubbed as TD-2000, which is based on the 4 x 4 ZFB05 armored vehicle manufactured by Shaanxi Baoji Special Vehicles Manufacturing Co. Ltd. A total of 8 QW-4 missiles are mounted atop of the vehicle in two groups of 4, with the electro-optical (optronic) fire control systems (FCS) in the middle. The optronic FCS is the OT-3, derived from OFC-3 optronic FCS used on Type 730 CIWS, and developed by the same manufacturer of OFC-3. The range of the optronic FCS is greater than 15 km, and the reaction time is less than 6 seconds, and it weighs around 110 kg. The reaction time of the missile is less than a second.

Missiles of TD-2000 can be fired simultaneously in pairs, either a pair or two pairs, against a single target, or simultaneously against two different targets, and all missiles can be reloaded within 7 minutes. TD-2000 can fire its missiles from traveling state in less than 5 to 10 minutes. TD-2000 features a built-in-test/diagnostic system which greatly improves its reliability and maintainability. Specifications:

Operating temperature: −40 to 50 °C
Mean time between failure: > 100 hours
Mean time between catastrophic failure: > 250 hours
Mean time to repair: < 0.5 hour.
The TD-2000B is To increase the capability of TD-2000, China National Precision Machinery Import and Export Corporation (CNPMIEC) also revealed a development of TD-2000, dubbed as TD-2000B at the same Zhuhai Airshow, where TD-2000B was displayed as part of the subsystem of TD-2000B. The primary improvement over the original system is the extra C4ISR capability added so that in addition to control the QW-4 missiles of TD-2000, TD-2000B can also simultaneously control up to 6 anti-aircraft artillery pieces..
The FL-9 is FL-9 is another SAM system utilizing QW series MANPADS, and it is not to be confused with the Chinese anti-shipping missile also designated as FL-9, which is a derivative of TL-6. FL-9 SAM system is similar to FL-2000C in that both utilizes QW series MANPAD and TY-90. FL-9 is a highly automated system that the operation of engaging targets can be performed by a single person. The vehicle carries a total of six missiles, three on each side of the FCS arranged in the following way: one TY-90 atop of two QW-18. The FCS included TV, IR and laser. Another improved feature of FL-9 is that in addition to SAMs, surface-to-surface missile can also be deployed on the same platform..

Here is Dimensions information for the QW Family (QW-1, QW-2, QW-3) of Chinese Man-Portable Infrared Guided Surface-to-Air Missiles:
The QW-1 Missile Weight is 10.7.
The QW-1 Missile and Launcher Weight is 16.5.
The QW-1M Missile and Launcher Weight is 18.
The QW-2 Missile Weight is 11.3.
The QW-2 Missile and Launcher Weight is 18.
The QW-3 Missile and Launcher Weight is 23.
The Diameter (All missiles) is 72.
The QW-1 Length is 1.53.
The QW-2 Length is 1.59.
The QW-3 Length is 2.10.

Here is Performance QW-1 information for the QW Family (QW-1, QW-2, QW-3) of Chinese Man-Portable Infrared Guided Surface-to-Air Missiles:
The Speed is Mach 1.81.
The Minimum Engagement Altitude is 30 m.
The Maximum Engagement Altitude is 4,000 m.
The Minimum Range is 0.5km.
The Maximum Range is 5 km.
The Warhead is 1.5kg HE / Frag.
The Fuze is Impact.
The Self Destruct Time is 14 - 18 seconds.
The Battery Life is 50 seconds.
The Ready from the March is In 10 seconds.

Here is Performance QW-2 information for the QW Family (QW-1, QW-2, QW-3) of Chinese Man-Portable Infrared Guided Surface-to-Air Missiles:
The Speed is Mach 1.81.
The Minimum Engagement Altitude is 10m.
The Maximum Engagement Altitude is 3,500m.
The Minimum Range is 0.5 km.
The Maximum Range is 6 km.
The Warhead is 1.42kg HE.
The Fuze is Active laser.

Here is Performance QW-3 information for the QW Family (QW-1, QW-2, QW-3) of Chinese Man-Portable Infrared Guided Surface-to-Air Missiles:
The Speed is Mach 2.2.
The Minimum Altitude is 4 m.
The Maximum Altitude is 5,000 m.
The Minimum Range is 8 m.
The Maximum Range is 8,000 m.

Here is Guidance System information for the QW Family (QW-1, QW-2, QW-3) of Chinese Man-Portable Infrared Guided Surface-to-Air Missiles:
The QW-1 / QW-2 is Infrared.
The QW-3 is Semi-active Laser.
The QW-4 is Imaging Laser.

