This document describes the VN4 Chinese 4x4 Light Armored Vehicle.

The VN4 Chinese 4x4 Light Armored Vehicle is a light armored patrol vehicle developed and manufactured by China North Industries Corporation (Norinco). It is intended for use with border forces and internal security operations and is able to carry a variety of weapon systems to achieve its goals. The VN4 joins the growing family of LAVs from Norinco and since the vehicle was first revealed, it has attracted multiple export orders.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Cambodia, China, Kenya, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of).

Here is System information for the VN4 Chinese 4x4 Light Armored Vehicle:
The Alternative Designation is VN4.
The Type is Light Armored Vehicle.
The Manufacturer is NORINCO.
The Configuration is 4x4.
The Crew is 2.
The Passengers is 8.

Here is Dimensions information for the VN4 Chinese 4x4 Light Armored Vehicle:
The Length is 5.40 m.
The Width is 2.40 m.
The Height is 2.05 m.
The Weight, Combat is 9,000 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the VN4 Chinese 4x4 Light Armored Vehicle:
The Engine Name is Cummins.
The Engine Type is 6 cylinders, turbocharged, water-cooled, diesel.
The Engine Power is 235.
The Power-to-Weight Ratio is 25.77 hp/t.
The Maximum Range is 700 km.
The Maximum Speed is 115 km/h.
The Amphibious is No.
The Gradient is 60%.
The Side Slope is 40%.
The Vertical Step is 0.40 m.
The Trench is 0.80 m.
The Fording is INA.

Here is Main Weapon System information for the VN4 Chinese 4x4 Light Armored Vehicle:
The Note is The VN4 is fitted with an open-roof small turret mounted at front top hull armed with a 12.7mm heavy machine gun..

Here is Protection information for the VN4 Chinese 4x4 Light Armored Vehicle:
The Armor is The hull of the VN4 is made in all-welded steel armor plates which provides a protection for the crew against firing of small arms and shell splinters. On entry door is available on each side at the front of the hull and one large door at the rear. Two small bulletproof windows are fitted on each side of the hull with firing port..
The Applique Armor is Available.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is 3 x.

