This document describes the KJ-600 (Sea Plate) Chinese Airborne Early Warning and Control (AEW&C) Aircraft.

The KJ-600 (Sea Plate) Chinese Airborne Early Warning and Control (AEW&C) Aircraft is being developed indigenously by the Xi'an Aircraft Company Limited in China. It will be the first fixed-wing carrier-based airborne early warning aircraft to be operated by the People's Liberation Navy (PLAN). This is the Chinese analogue to the U.S. Navy’s E-2D Advanced Hawkeye, and it looks remarkably similar.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is System information for the KJ-600 (Sea Plate) Chinese Airborne Early Warning and Control (AEW&C) Aircraft:
The Alternate Designation(s) is KJ-600; Sea Plate.
The Type is Chinese Airborne Early Warning and Control (AEW&C) Aircraft.
The Manufacturer is Xi'an Aircraft Industrial Corporation.
The Operator is The People's Liberation Army Navy (PLAN).
The Crew is 5-6.
The Number of Engines is 2.
The Launch and Recovery is The KJ-600 will require a catapult-assisted take-off but arrested recovery (CATOBAR) system for launch and recovery. This will limit the aircraft's use to China's Type 003 aircraft carriers or future hulls featuring this system..
The Note is By 2018, designation KJ-600 was unofficially being offered as designation for future shipborne AEW aircraft, on timescale coincident with availability of catapult-equipped Chinese aircraft carrier, its MTOW incompatible with 'ski-jumpʼ launch of first such vessel (which requires AEW helicopter)..

Here is Dimensions information for the KJ-600 (Sea Plate) Chinese Airborne Early Warning and Control (AEW&C) Aircraft:
The Length is 18.14.
The Width (Wing Span) is 25 m.
The Height is 5.72 m.
The Empty Weight is 25,401 kg.
The Maximum Takeoff Weight is 30,481 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the KJ-600 (Sea Plate) Chinese Airborne Early Warning and Control (AEW&C) Aircraft:
The Engine Name is 2 × Zhuzhou WoJiang-6C.
The Engine Type is Turboprop.
The Engine Power is 5,103 hp each.
The Propellers is 6-bladed constant-speed feathering and reversible propellers.
The Maximum Range is 1,200 km.
The Ferry Range is 2,800 km.
The Maximum Speed is 693 km/h.
The Service Ceiling is 15,000 m.

Here is Airborne Early Warning and Control (AEW&C) Aircraft Equipment information for the KJ-600 (Sea Plate) Chinese Airborne Early Warning and Control (AEW&C) Aircraft:
The Radar is Radar mounted on aircraft roof above wings. Aircraft believed to be fitted with CETC No 14 research institute sourced D band KLC-7 AEW radar in the rotodome. The KLC-7 integrates a mechanical scanning system with active electronically scanned arrays (for 360° coverage), anti-jamming functions, and features a longer detection range and stronger target-tracking capability than previous models..

Here is Protection information for the KJ-600 (Sea Plate) Chinese Airborne Early Warning and Control (AEW&C) Aircraft:
The Stealth Properties is None.
The Heat Signature Reduction is INA.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The EW Counter Measures is INA.
The Chaffs/Flares is INA.

