This document describes the Type 908 Class (Fusu-Class) Chinese Replenishment Ship.

The Type 908 (NATO reporting name Fusu-class, also known as Nancang-class) replenishment ship is a class of multi-product replenishment oilers commissioned into the People's Liberation Army Navy and the Royal Thai Navy. The first Type 908 replenishment ship, Qinghaihu, was originally laid down for the Soviet Navy as a Komandarn Fedko-class merchant tanker, but construction was halted due to insufficient funds. The ship was then purchased by China as an incomplete vessel in 1993 from post-Soviet Ukraine. The ship has a near sister ship (INS Jyoti) operating with the Indian Navy. After significant refit, the ship was consecutively renamed Qinghaihu (885), formerly ex Nancang (Nanyun 953) and ex-Vladimir Peregudov. Another similar ship was built and sold to Thailand and currently in service with the Royal Thai Navy as HTMS Similan (871).

The Type 908 AOR is the second generation Chinese replenishment ship that is outfitted with a total of six cranes, four oil refuelling stations, and two stores stations. This allows the ship to replenish three warships simultaneously. The ship, through her helicopter facilities, is able to replenish warships operating nearby via vertical replenishment (VERTREP).

The Type 908 was the second stage in Chinese replenishment ship development and construction. Although considered somewhat successful, the first Type 905 replenishment tanker (Fuqing class) could not completely satisfy the requirements of the People's Liberation Army Navy (PLAN). One of the primary drawbacks of this class was that they are mainly for replenishment of liquid supplies, i.e. fuel and water. These ships of the first stage of the development of Chinese replenishment ships could only replenish extremely limited dry supplies, and are virtually incapable of resupply of ammunition, because the Chinese industry at the time lacked the capability to provide sounding safety measures for resupplying and storing ammunition with fuels. This is one of the two primary constrains that despite the fact that on August 28, 1977, the Central Military Commission ordered the resumption of the development of fleet replenishment ship that is capable of one-stop replenishment, (i.e. being capable of resupply ammunition, fuels, water, and solid supplies together by a single ship, a concept first pioneered by United States Navy), the project was eventually put on hold.

The other primary constrain was budget constraints as Chinese economy was near the verge of total collapse resulting from the Cultural Revolution. Eventually, as the economic reform in the People's Republic of China in 1979 rapidly improved the Chinese economy, the second stage of the development of the Chinese fleet replenishment ship was resumed in 1988, after around a decade of dormancy. PLAN had a lot of expectations for the new class of ship: in addition to being capable of one-stop replenishment, the new ship was also required to be capable of serving as a hospital ship. However, to meet such high expectation of PLAN, costs was driven up multiple times. As the design was completed, the price of the proposed new ship exceeded what PLAN could afford and the project was in danger of being cancelled again.

On May 1, 1993, the uncompleted former Soviet naval ship was towed to Dalian shipyard from Ukrainian Kherson shipyard. In addition to the hull and subsystems, China also purchased the design, which was immediately modified to meet the Chinese needs. Chinese Academy of Sciences academician Zhang Wende (张文德), the original chief designer of the second generation domestic Chinese replenishment ship was named as the chief designer and the program manager of this conversion project. The deputy general designer is Mr. Huang Wei (黄蔚), another general engineer of the 701st Institute of China Shipbuilding Industry Corporation (CSIC). On May 8, 1996, it entered Chinese service in South Sea Fleet, where it has remained until today. The pennant number was originally Nanyun (南运)-953, but later changed to 885, with name Qinghaihu (青海湖), and this upgraded ship became the second generation Chinese replenishment ship, replacing the originally planned indigenous one.

The conversion project was deemed successful and worthy but Chinese, who had gained important insights on Soviet design principle, core technologies, important subsystems, layout, and other expertise that were difficult for Chinese to obtain, and these valuable knowledge would later help China in designing its next generation replenishment ships. The most important gain, however, was financial. The original funding that was insufficient to develop a proposed indigenous 2nd generation Chinese replenishment ship was not only enough to buy the uncompleted former Soviet ship, but also had enough left to cover the following conversion work. One of the primary areas of improvement of the original former-Soviet design was in damage control, which was woefully inadequate (Rumored due to its original civilian merchant tanker design). Some of the interior wiring was exposed, and the ship's battle damage control system was very limited, with a near absence of internal damage limitation, insufficient fire-suppression system and water-tight locks. Incorporate the experienced gained from the rework of Type 053 frigates exported to Royal Thai Navy, the damage control of the ship was upgraded to western (mostly German and American) standards. There are a total of four transfer stations, with dry cargo transfer station followed by liquid cargo transfer station, which is exactly the opposite of arrangement of other replenishment ships in Chinese service, which is the major reason for China to indigenously develop the third generation replenishment ship. A total of 9,630 tons of fuel can be carried, and with other dry cargoes such as food and ammunition, the total provision Type 908 can supply is 23,000 tons.[

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China, Thailand.

Here is Variants information for the Type 908 Class (Fusu-Class) Chinese Replenishment Ship:
The HTMS Similan is In January, 1993, China received the notification from Thai government, informing the former's intention to purchase a replenishment ship for its light aircraft carrier fleet. China decided to join the bid, among other western shipbuilders including DCNS, Fincantieri, BAZAN, Hyundai and Dutch Schelde shipyards, and the Chinese design would be very similar to the converted former-Soviet ship, with work on both ships would be performed simultaneously. The original chief designer of the cancelled second generation domestic Chinese replenishment ship, academician Zhang Wende (张文德), who was named as the chief designer and the program manager of the conversion project for the Chinese navy, was also assigned an additional task, as the chief designer of second ship China would be building for export to the Thai navy. China managed to beat its western competitors and won the Thai contract.

Work on the ship built for the Royal Thai Navy went well and the ship was completed on August 12, 1996. Zhang Wende, the chief designer personally stayed on board the ship for twelve days during the voyage to Thailand, gathering information at the very last moment, so that it would help in the future design of the next generation Chinese replenishment ship. Whenever possible, Zhang personally operated the ship, including radars, handling boats the ship carried, and other tasks. The ship was formally accepted to the Thai naval service on September 12, 1996, and was named HTMS Similan (pennant number 187).

HTMS Similan is very similar to its sister ship in Chinese service, except it uses a Chinese hull. The most important difference, however, is in upgrading its replenishment capability. Despite being able to replenish solid supplies, the capability to resupply ammo is still rather limited for the Chinese ship. The Thai ship has further overcome this problem by increasing the ammunition resupply capability. Despite the difference between two ships, most of the technologies and components, especially those core technologies for both ships remain the same, and for this reason, China has placed HTMS Similan and the Chinese ship Qinghaihu (青海湖) in the same class. This class would eventually evolve into Type 903 replenishment ship (Fuchi class)..

Here is System information for the Type 908 Class (Fusu-Class) Chinese Replenishment Ship:
The Alternative Designation is Type 908 Class; Fusu Class.
The Type is Replenishment Ship.
The Builder is Kherson Shipyard, refitted at Dalian Shipyard.
The In Service is 1993-Present.
The Crew is 125.
The Cargo Capacity is There are a total of four transfer stations, with dry cargo transfer station followed by liquid cargo transfer station, which is exactly the opposite of arrangement of other replenishment ships in Chinese service, which is the major reason for China to indigenously develop the third generation replenishment ship. A total of 9,630 tons of fuel can be carried, and with other dry cargoes such as food and ammunition, the total provision Type 908 can supply is 23,000 tons..
The Note is The Type 908 AOR is the second generation Chinese replenishment ship that is outfitted with a total of six cranes, four oil refuelling stations, and two stores stations. This allows the ship to replenish three warships simultaneously. The ship, through her helicopter facilities, is able to replenish warships operating nearby via vertical replenishment (VERTREP)..

Here is Dimensions information for the Type 908 Class (Fusu-Class) Chinese Replenishment Ship:
The Length is 188.9 m.
The Beam is 25.33 m.
The Draft is 10.41 m.
The Displacement, Full Load is 37,000 tons.

Here is Propulsion System information for the Type 908 Class (Fusu-Class) Chinese Replenishment Ship:
The Engine Name is 1 x Burmeister & Wain Diesel.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 10,600 hp (7,904 kW).
The Maximum Range is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 16 knots (30 km/h; 18 mph).
The Endurance is INA.

Here is Onboard Aviation Facilities information for the Type 908 Class (Fusu-Class) Chinese Replenishment Ship:
The Facilities is Hangar and flight deck.
The Aircraft is No.
The Helicopters is 1 x Z-8 helicopter.

Here is Protection information for the Type 908 Class (Fusu-Class) Chinese Replenishment Ship:
The Active Protection System is No.
The Countermeasures is INA.
The NBC Water Washdown System is Yes.

