This document describes the RQ-4A Global Hawk American Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The RQ-4A Global Hawk is a high-altitude, remotely-piloted, surveillance aircraft. It provides a broad overview and systematic surveillance using high-resolution synthetic aperture radar (SAR) and long-range electro-optical/infrared (EO/IR) sensors with long loiter times over target areas. It can survey as much as 40,000 square miles (100,000 km2) of terrain a day, an area the size of South Korea or Iceland.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Germany, Japan, South Korea (Republic of Korea).

Here is System information for the RQ-4A Global Hawk American Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is RQ-4A Global Hawk.
The Date of Introduction is 2001.
The Type is High Altitude Long Endurance (HALE) UAV.
The Proliferation is United States, NATO, Germany, Republic of South Korea, Japan.
The Manufacturer is Northrop Grumman / Ryan Aeronautical.
The Mission Roles is Reconnaissance, Special Operations.

Here is Dimensions information for the RQ-4A Global Hawk American Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is 13.4.
The Width is 35.3.
The Height is 4.6.
The Weight is 3,850.
The Internal Payload Weight is 907.

Here is Automotive information for the RQ-4A Global Hawk American Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is Allison Rolls Royce AE3007H.
The Engine Type is Turbofan.
The Engine Power is 7,050.
The Maximum Speed is 351.
The Maximum Distance is 12,000.
The Maximum Altitude is 19,812.

Here is Variants information for the RQ-4A Global Hawk American Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The RQ-4B is Improved Global Hawk; increased wingspan (130.9 feet), length (47.7 feet) and payload capacity; reduced range..
The EQ-4B is Fitted with Battlefield Airborne Communications Node (BACN) suite..
The RQ-4D "Phoenix" is NATO Variant. Basic platform features..
The RQ-4E is Based on the RQ-4B airframe but fitted with European Aeronautical Defense 
& Space (EADS) reconnaissance systems; German export model; single example delivered as of March 2013 with an additional four more possible..
The MQ-4C "Triton" is Naval Global Hawk developed for US Navy; primarily for maritime reconnaissance and surveillance; 68 examples planned for procurement. NFI..
The Global Hawk NATO AGS (Alliance Ground Surveillance) is Developed for NATO procurement; as many as five examples may be procured. NFI..

