This document describes the R-73E Russian Air-to-Air Missile.

R-73E
The R-73E is the export variant with extended range.

The AA-11 Archer (Russian R-73) is an infrared (IR) seeking air-to-air missile (AAM) that has become the benchmark for all IR missiles under development. It is the best short-range AAM in the Russian arsenal and has been cleared for use on a wide variety of aircraft.

The Archer is fitted with four sets of cruciform fins, all indexed in line with one another. The lead set of fins is small and mounted on a small pivot arm. The fin area is behind the pivot point. The second set has four fixed, rhomboid, low-aspect-ratio vanes with a notch cut in the trailing edge to accommodate the leading edge of the third set of larger, movable, delta-wing fins.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Algeria, Angola, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Belarus, Bulgaria, China, Cuba, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Hungary, India, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Malaysia, North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Peru, Poland, Romania, Russian Federation, Serbia, Slovakia, Sudan, Uganda, Uzbekistan, Viet Nam.

Here is Variants information for the R-73E Russian Air-to-Air Missile:
The R-73A is This is the domestic Russian air force variant..
The R-73E is The R-73E is the export variant with extended range..
The R-73M Upgrade/R-74 is The versions includes improvements to the seeker and radar that allow the AA-11 to increase its boresight engagement angle from 60 degrees to as much as 90 degrees.
A new algorithm also enhances the missile’s resistance to countermeasures and provides automatic precision selection of the aimpoint. This version may have been redesignated as the R-74.

Two variants of this upgrade have been identified as the R-73M1 and R-72M2 (R-72 RDM-2)..
The R-73 Rearward-Launched Missile is This variant was once under experimental development; its final disposition is unknown. Test launches were conducted from the Su-27 Flanker at both sub- and supersonic speeds. It was launched in the rear hemisphere of the aircraft and could be utilized in day or night conditions with high ECM and i ntense ground clutter.
Rearward flight was controlled trough "aerogaz dynamic" controls (vectored thrust control). Although similar to the R-73 in many respects, the rearward-launched R-73 had the following characteristics:.

Here is R-73E Air-to-Air Missile information for the R-73E Russian Air-to-Air Missile of the System:
The Name is R-73E.
The Type is Air-to-Air Missile.
The Manufacturer is Molniya, Moscow, Russia (designer)
 Spetztekhnika Vympel, Moscow, Russia (manufacturer)
 Arsenal central design office, Kiev, Ukraine (seeker assembly).
The Length is 2.90 m.
The Diameter is 170 mm.
The Wingspan is 0.51 m.
The Maximum Launch Distance, Front Hemisphere is 30 km.
The Maximum Launch Distance, Rear Hemisphere is 300 m.
The Maximum Range is 30 km.
The Minimum Range is 200 m.
The Maximum Target Speed is 2,500 km/h, Mach 2.35.
The Maximum Target Load is 12 g.
The Warhead is conventional high-explosive expanding rod.
The Guidance System is cooled IR seeker, probably with all-aspect capability, flare countermeasure filters.

