This document describes the PL-10 Chinese Air-to-Air Missile.

The PL-10 (Chinese: 霹雳-10; pinyin: Pī Lì-10; literally: 'Thunderbolt-10') is a short-range, infrared-homing air-to-air missile (AAM) developed by the People's Republic of China. It was designed by Dr. Liang Xiaogeng (梁晓庚) at the Luoyang Electro Optical Center, which is also known as Institute 612 and renamed in 2002 as the China Air-to-Air Guided Missile Research Institute (中国空空导弹研究院). Development of the missile commenced in 2004 for use on stealth fighters such as the J-20.

The missile is fitted with a multi-element IIR seeker capable of +/-90 degree off boresight angles. The missile seeker can be slaved to a helmet-mounted display (HMD), allowing the pilot to track a target beyond the aircraft's radar scan envelope using the missile's high off-boresight capability, achieved by the pilot turning his head towards the target to lock-on, better known as "look and shoot". Flight is controlled by a thrust-vector controlled solid rocket motor and free-moving type control wings on the missile's tail. The central portion of the missile has long, thin strakes, which help maintain missile maneuverability in the terminal homing stage after the rocket motor stops firing.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is PL-10 (ASR) Air-to-Air Missile information for the PL-10 Chinese Air-to-Air Missile of the System:
The Name is PL-10 (ASR).
The Type is Air-to-Air Missile.
The Manufacturer is Luoyang Electro-Optics Technology Development Centre (EOTDC).
The Length is 3.0 m.
The Weight is 89 kg.
The Diameter is INA.
The Warhead is Blast-frag, or expanding rod (RF-fuse).
The Detonation Mechanism is Laser proximity fuse and impact.
The Engine is Solid-propellant rocket.
The Guidance System is Multi-element imaging infrared.
The Maximum Range is 60 km.
The Note is The missile is fitted with a multi-element IIR seeker capable of +/-90 degree off boresight angles. The missile seeker can be slaved to a helmet-mounted display (HMD),allowing the pilot to track a target beyond the aircraft's radar scan envelope using the missile's high off-boresight capability, achieved by the pilot turning his head towards the target to lock-on, better known as "look and shoot". Flight is controlled by a thrust-vector controlled solid rocket motor and free-moving type control wings on the missile's tail. The central portion of the missile has long, thin strakes, which help maintain missile maneuverability in the terminal homing stage after the rocket motor stops firing..

