This document describes the Land Rover Defender RWMIK British 4x4 Rapid Deployment Vehicle.

Land Rover RWMIK British 4x4 Rapid Deployment Vehicle.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

Here is Variants information for the Land Rover Defender RWMIK British 4x4 Rapid Deployment Vehicle:
The Land Rover Defender Rapid Deployment Vehicle (RDV) is Variant without the RWMIK Kit..
The Land Rover Defender EWMIK is Variant with the EWMIK Kit..

Here is System information for the Land Rover Defender RWMIK British 4x4 Rapid Deployment Vehicle:
The Alternative Designation is Land Rover Defender RWMIK.
The Type is Rapid Deployment Vehicle.
The Manufacturer is Land Rover.
The Configuration is 4x4.
The Crew is 1.
The Passenger Capacity is 3.
The Payload Capacity is 2,000 kg.
The Note is The primary differences between EWMIK and RWMIK are that the latter has a more basic Bowman communications package fit, but an enhanced level of underbody protection for the crew, protection being built in and not an add-on as with EWMIK..

Here is Dimensions information for the Land Rover Defender RWMIK British 4x4 Rapid Deployment Vehicle:
The Length is 4.845 m.
The Width is 2.532 m.
The Height is 2.005 m.
The Weight, Standard is 2,700 kg.
The Weight, Combat is 4,700 kg.
The Wheel Base is 2.794 m.
The Ground Clearance is 0.230 m.

Here is Automotive information for the Land Rover Defender RWMIK British 4x4 Rapid Deployment Vehicle:
The Engine Name is Land Rover 300 Tdi.
The Engine Type is 2.8 litre, in line-4, turbocharged, direct injection, water cooled, 4 stroke, diesel.
The Engine Power is 127 hp at 3,500 rpm.
The Engine Torque Power is 370 N m torque at 1,750 rpm.
The Alternator is 1 × 12V, 120A (commercial unit).
The Gearbox is ZF, Automatic.
The Clutch is diaphragm spring.
The Transfer Box is 2-speed.
The Electrical System is 24V (12/24 V for new-build).
The Steering is worm and roller.
The Suspension is (front) coil springs, telescopic hydraulic shock-absorbers and anti-roll bar; (rear) coil springs, helper springs, telescopic hydraulic shock-absorbers and anti-roll bar.
The Brakes is hydraulic; discs all-round.
The Tires is LT265/75 R 16.

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Land Rover Defender RWMIK British 4x4 Rapid Deployment Vehicle:
The Note is The Land Rover Defender RWMIK is typically equipped with 1 x M2 Browning 12.7mm Heavy Machine Gun and 1 x  FN MAG 7.62 mm General-Purpose Machine Gun..

Here is Protection information for the Land Rover Defender RWMIK British 4x4 Rapid Deployment Vehicle:
The Armor is Protection from fragmentation grenades and anti-personnel mines with a underfloor blast protection kit Crew protection is also enhanced, the most significant and visible improvements being the composite side, door, and rear panels that replace the MAPIK of earlier vehicles. Four-point seat harnesses are now standard..
The Applique Armor is Available.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is NO.

