This document describes the ZALA Lancet-1 Russian Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The Zala Lancet is a kamikaze drone developed by Zala Aero to take out targets on land, in the air, and/or in water following the requirements of the Russian Army. The new weapon system has a maximum range of 40 kilometers and can carry out a precision strike autonomously. Besides, the drone has been designed to provide real-time video and imagery to the control station. The air vehicle includes intelligence, navigation, and communications modules.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Russian Federation.

Here is Variants information for the ZALA Lancet-1 Russian Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The LANCET-3 is Loitering munition ZALA LANCET-3 is equipped with several aiming systems: coordinate, electro-optical and combined systems.
Also the unmanned vehicle has a video communication channel that broadcasts target image to confirm the target engagement..

Here is System information for the ZALA Lancet-1 Russian Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is Lancet-1.
The Type is Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is Kalashnikov concern and ZALA AERO GROUP.
The Mission is The Zala Lancet is a kamikaze drone developed by Zala Aero to take out targets on land, in the air and/or in water following the requirements of the Russian Army..
The Maximum Payload Weight is The “Lancet-1” is equipped with a high-explosive fragmentation warhead with a mass of 1 kg. In this configuration, it has a take-off weight of the entire 5 kg..
The TV Guidance is The Lancet has been fitted with a TV guidance unit that allows an operator to control the munition even on the terminal stage of flight..
The Guidance System is The new munition features an optical-electronic guidance unit and can be pre-programmed before the flight..
The Aerodynamic Configuration is The most important feature of the two "Lancets" is the aerodynamic configuration with two X-shaped sets of planes. It was used to reduce the dimensions of the bearing planes while maintaining the required lifting force. At the same time, we managed to increase the rigidity of the structure and increase the possible flight speed. Two sets of planes also improved the maneuverability of the device..
The Maneuverability is The developers claim that due to their high maneuverability, new UAVs in flight can even imitate the behavior of birds, confusing the enemy. This seriously complicates the search and identification of loitering munitions, as well as their subsequent destruction..

Here is Dimensions information for the ZALA Lancet-1 Russian Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Takeoff Weight is 12.

Here is Automotive information for the ZALA Lancet-1 Russian Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is INA.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 80-110 km/h.
The Maximum Distance is 40 km.
The Maximum Altitude is INA.
The Endurance is 40 min.

Here is Armament information for the ZALA Lancet-1 Russian Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Note is The Lancets in combat configuration could be fitted with high-explosive (HE) or HE-fragmentation warheads. The weapon seems to be the first known Russian-designed loitering munition..

