This document describes the R-438M Belozer Russian Mobile Satellite Communication Station.

The station is designed to provide satellite radio communications for units operating detached  from the main forces, as well as for use as a commander’s personal station. It provides a full autonomy of operation transmitting voice, digital, and text messages, automated functional testing, and interface with a wide range of peripheral devices through ports RS-232C, C1-FL-BI. The radio station can be carried by one person.

Mode of work:

Duplex telecommunication;

Simplex data communication;

Formalized service communication mode;

Transfer rates of 1200 bps;

Two channel receiving mode.

As compared to the stations of the previous generation, the data speed has increased by several times. On the move, the station is the size of a school backpack and can be carried by one person; it weighs 16 kg. Set up time is about 30 sec. The station provides formalized service communication and a secure telephone mode. The station operates in the range of 4 GHz to 6 GHz. Data transfer rate is 1200 bps. The advantages of satellite communication are a large range of reliable signals, especially in  areas with difficult terrain, regardless of the weather conditions and time of day and year, and a highly secure protection. Yaroslavl Radio Manufacturing Plant started production of the portable satellite radio station R-438 Barrier-T in 1998-2000 and the R-438M Belozer in 2002-2003.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is Radio #6 information for the R-438M Belozer Russian Mobile Satellite Communication Station of the System:
The Name is R-438M Belozer.
The Quantity is 1.
The Type is Portable SATCOM System.
The Frequency is INA.
The Capabilities is Voice Data.
The Maximum Range is 5,000.
The Mount Type is Manpack.
The In Service is Yes.
The Transfer Rates is 1,200.
The Two Channel Receiving Mode is Yes.
The Note is There is very little information about the R-438M Belozer.

