This document describes the CZ-75 Czechoslovakian 9mm Semi-Automatic Pistol.

The CZ 75 is a semi-automatic pistol made by Czech firearm manufacturer ČZUB. First introduced in 1975, it is one of the original "wonder nines" and features a staggered-column magazine, all-steel construction, and a hammer forged barrel. It is widely distributed throughout the world and is the most common handgun in the Czech Republic.

The CZ 75 is a short recoil operated, locked breech pistol. It uses the Browning linkless cam locking system similar to that used in the Browning Hi-Power pistol, where the barrel and slide are locked together on firing, using locking lugs milled into the barrel mating with recesses in the roof of the slide. An enclosed cam track integral with the barrel is actuated by the slide release lever's transverse pin. After the first few millimeters of the recoil stroke, the barrel is cammed downwards at the rear, enabling the slide to continue the recoil stroke and eject the spent cartridge.

Most models have the capability of being fired in both single and double-action modes, and feature a frame-mounted manual safety. Some recent models have a decocking lever that doubles as a manual safety. Starting in the early 1990s, all CZ 75s have been made with firing pin blocks, designated by the letter B (as in CZ 75B).

The CZ 75 was one of the first high-capacity 9mm pistols with a manual safety similar to that of the Browning Hi-Power. This allows the CZ 75 to be carried with the hammer cocked with safety applied and a round chambered, ready for use simply by switching the safety off, a configuration known as condition 1. It is somewhat unusual for double-action pistols to have this "cocked and locked" type of safety; most such as the Walther P38 and the Beretta 92F have a combination safety/decocking lever (as do some later versions of the CZ 75). The trade-off of this configuration is that to uncock the hammer for a double-action first shot, the hammer must be dropped manually by pulling the trigger while lowering the hammer with the firer's thumb under control. Once lowered in this manner, a double-action first shot can be achieved in a similar manner to other double-action pistols without actuating any controls. Subsequent shots will be single-action unless the hammer is again manually lowered.

All non-double-action only CZ-75 variants feature a "half-cock" notch. This is not a safety position, but rather an operator aid to provide a safe place to manually decock the pistol. All of the "decocker" models decock to this position, and the manual advises not to attempt to place the hammer further on any model.

Unlike most other semi-auto pistols, the slide rides inside the frame rails, similar to the SIG P210, rather than outside. This provides a tight slide-to-frame fit and a very efficient barrel lock-up, both of which contribute to its accuracy.

On current models, frames are cast and slides are machined from forgings, though forged frames have been used in very early production models. The six-groove barrel has traditional land-and-groove rifling with a higher-than-standard rate of twist (1 in 9.7).

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Brazil, Bulgaria, Chile, Egypt, El Salvador, Finland, Georgia, Greece, Honduras, Israel, Kazakhstan, Libya, Mexico, North Macedonia, Philippines, Poland, Russian Federation, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, South Africa, Spain, Thailand, Turkey, United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the CZ-75 Czechoslovakian 9mm Semi-Automatic Pistol:
The 75 Steel Full Size is CZ 75
The original CZ 75, easily identified by the heavily stepped slide and short slide rails
CZ 75
Late version, easily identified by longer slide rails and shorter slide-step
CZ 75 B
Second-generation CZ 75, upgraded with an internal firing pin safety, squared and serrated trigger guard, and ring hammer
CZ 75 BD
A variant of the now-common CZ 75 B (B standing for firing pin block) with a decocker replacing the traditional manual safety. (D stands for decocker.) This variant is quickly becoming the most common of the CZ 75B models, due to the additional safety the decocker safety provides.
CZ 75 BD Police
Variant of the CZ 75 BD equipped with loaded chamber indicator, reversible magazine catch, lanyard ring, checkered front and back strap of the grip and serrated trigger as standard. Most Police models have "Police" stamped on the slide. A smaller amount exclude "Police" but have front slide serrations.
CZ 75 B Stainless
Stainless steel version of the CZ 75 B. Available in a high gloss and matte stainless finish. Also available in the new/limited edition (sand blasted finish with sides of the slide and frame decoratively ground). All stainless models feature ambidextrous safeties.
CZ 75 B Omega (2009-2015)
A version of the CZ 75 B with a factory-reworked trigger group, the "Omega" system, introduced with the P-07. It is available chambered for 9 mm or .40 S&W. It has a manual safety that is not ambidextrous.
CZ 75 B Omega Convertible (2016-)
An updated version of the previous CZ 75 B Omega. It comes with a decocker that can be easily swapped to a manual safety, with the included kit. The decocker or the safety are ambidextrous. It also has the hammer and the sights updated.
CZ 75 B SA (cancelled 2018)
A CZ 75 which has a single-action trigger mechanism and a drop-free magazine. It is available chambered for 9 mm or .40 S&W.
CZ 75 B DAO (cancelled)
A CZ 75 that has a longer and heavier, constant trigger pull (double-action only). Chambered for 9mm and .40 S&W. Featuring no external safety or decocker as well as a bobbed hammer..
The 75 Compact is CZ 75 Compact
A standard CZ 75 with a slightly shortened grip and 3.9-inch barrel. There is a version available chambered for the .40 S&W.
CZ 75 D PČR Compact
Very compact – similar to the P-01 in size, with an aluminum alloy frame also but lacks an M3 rail frame and features a smaller muzzle point and snag free sights. A popular choice for a carry weapon, known for its inherent accuracy and weight distribution.
CZ 75 SemiCompact
Combines the frame, grip and capacity of the full size CZ 75 with the shortened (by 20mm) barrel and slide of the CZ 75 Compact.
CZ P-01
A CZ 75 Compact variant intended for law enforcement use, with an aluminum alloy frame, decocker and under-barrel accessory rail. It is the new weapon of choice for the Czech National Police since 2001. It received NATO certification after undergoing extensive testing. Its NATO Stock Number (NSN) is 1005-16-000-8619.
CZ P-01 Omega Convertible
A version of the CZ P-01 with the new Omega trigger system. It comes with a decocker that can be easily swapped to a manual safety, with the included kit. The decocker or the safety are ambidextrous. It also has the hammer and the sights updated.
CZ P-06
Same as the P-01 but in .40 S&W
CZ 40-B/Colt Z-40
Collaboration between Colt/CZ. 1911 style frame made by Colt to use a CZ style slide chambered in .40 S&W. Was the basis of design for the RAMI 2075 series.
CZ 40-P
After the CZ-40B/Colt Z-40 project fell apart CZ used the left over slides and fit them to P-01 frames and sold as the CZ 40-P in .40 S&W. A small amount of CZ 40-P guns still have the CZ 40-B roll marks..
The Sub Compact is CZ 2075 RAMI
A subcompact version of the CZ 75 intended for concealed carry. Features a 3-inch barrel, aluminum frame and low-profile sights. Available in 9×19mm or .40 S&W, with standard magazine capacities of 10 (9×19mm) and 8 (.40 S&W) rounds, respectively. An optional 14-round magazine is available for the 9 mm version.
CZ 2075 RAMI BD
Same as the 2075 RAMI but includes a decocker and tritium sights
CZ 2075 RAMI P
Polymer framed version.
The Competition is CZ 75 SP-01/SP-01 Tactical
Similar to the P-01 with accessory rail, but with all-steel construction and utilizing the full-size frame and slide as well as incorporating extended-capacity 18-round magazines. It is available with an ambidextrous manual safety (SP-01) or with an ambidextrous decocker (SP-01 Tactical). The CZ 75 (SP-01) was designed for multiple purposes including but not limited to: a military/law enforcement duty sidearm, sidearm for counter-terrorism forces, and field/target shooting.[6] Used in the 2005 IPSC World Shoot XIV by World Champions Adam Tyc and Angus Hobdell (1st and 3rd place respectively in the production division).
CZ 75 SP-01 Shadow
New generation of CZ 75 SP-01 pistol especially adapted according to suggestions as proposed by users from communities worldwide, with an additional input from the Team CZ shooters Angus Hobdell and Adam Tyc. Based on the SP-01, it has no firing pin block resulting in improved trigger travel. It also features a slightly reshaped grip and safety, a “weaker” recoil spring for easier loading, and fiber optic front sight and tactical “Novak style” rear sight.
CZ 75 Shadow 2
In 2016, with the cooperation of the elite IPSC shooters of the Česká zbrojovka team, an improved version of the Shadow was released, called the Shadow 2. It included a longer barrel, a reshaped, lighter-weight slide, more aggressive slide serrations, improved grip ergonomics, aggressive grip checkering, and a smaller fiber optic in the front sight.

CZ 75 SP-01 Phantom
The CZ 75 Phantom has a polymer frame, is 33% lighter than steel frame models, with accessory rail and a forged steel slide with a weight saving scalloped profile. Two Interchangeable grip rear strap inserts are included with the Phantom to accommodate users with different sized hands. The pistol is further outfitted with a decocking lever. Czech Army Paratroopers of the 4th Rapid Deployment Brigade are fully equipped with this pistol from January 2012.
CZ 75 Standard IPSC
A CZ 75 variant designed specifically for IPSC competition with extended grip, single-action trigger, heavy-duty free-falling magazines, and an enlarged magazine well.
CZ 75 Tactical Sports
Replacing the ST IPSC was the tactical sports model, which featured minor improvements over its very similar predecessor. Available in 9×19mm (20 rounds) or .40 S&W (17 rounds).
CZ 75 Champion
A competition version designed for Open Division IPSC competition, with three port compensator, adjustable trigger, extended magazine release, ambidextrous safeties, fully adjustable sights and two-tone finish, with blued slide and satin nickel frame.
CZ 75 TS Czechmate
A competition variant based on the Tactical Sports model, equipped with a compensator and electronic red-dot sight on a frame mount. Designed especially for IPSC Open Division (and replacing the older Champion model), the Czechmate presents a turnkey solution for the sport, offering a complete competitive package including additional magazines and spare parts.
CZ 75 Kadet/Kadet 2
A .22 LR caliber slide/ barrel assembly and magazine kit to fit onto most standard CZ 75B frames (except the Tactical Sport and SP-01 Phantom). The Kadet also used to be sold as a complete pistol (slide assembly and frame), but is now only sold as a slide assembly to be mounted on existing frames. The 2nd generation conversion kit currently being sold is called the "Kadet 2", and includes a dedicated .22 slide stop that locks the slide back on an empty magazine. Night sights are optional..
The Polymer is CZ P-07 Duty
The CZ P-07 Duty is a compact, polymer-framed CZ 75 variant notable for having a redesigned trigger mechanism. The redesign has reduced the number of parts as well as improved the trigger pull. The exterior restyling was greatly influenced by the SPHINX 3000 design (itself being an enhanced Swiss CZ 75 clone). Chambered in 9mm Luger and .40 S&W, the CZ P-07 DUTY also includes the ability to change the manual safety to a decocking lever and vice versa through an exchange of parts. Introduced in 2009.
CZ P-09 Duty
Full-size version of the P-07, boasting 19 round capacity in 9mm. Introduced in 2013.
CZ P-09 Kadet
A .22 LR caliber slide/barrel assembly and magazine kit to fit onto standard CZ P-09 frames, similar to the CZ 75 Kadet/Kadet 2. The Kadet is sold as a complete pistol (slide assembly with frame) or a standalone slide assembly to be mounted on existing frames, and can be used as a training gun for the standard P-09. The frame is made from mechanically and thermally stable polymer reinforced with glass fibre, equipped with an underside MIL-STD-1913 rail for accessories. The slide has two pairs of cocking grooves for comfortable handling, and adjustable iron sights. The gun has easy-to-change manual safety and decocking controls, with three interchangeable grip backstraps in small, medium and large sizes..
The 85 is CZ 85
An updated version of the CZ 75 that is also ambidextrous
CZ 85B
A CZ 85 with a firing pin block
CZ 85BD
A CZ 85 B with a decocking lever, instead of a safety
CZ 85 Compact
A limited production compact CZ 85 with under-barrel accessory rail and chambered in .40 S&W. Identical to the current CZ 75 compact in .40 S&W.
CZ 85 Combat
adds an adjustable rear sight, extended magazine release, drop-free magazine and overtravel adjustment on the trigger. Lacks a firing pin safety so that firing pins can be replaced without special fitting..
The 97 (.45 ACP) is CZ 97B
.45 ACP version of the CZ 75 B
CZ 97 BD
.45 ACP version of the CZ 75 BD.
The CZ 75 Automatic is A selective-fire variant introduced in 1992 intended for law enforcement and military use. One distinguishing characteristic of earlier models is its longer compensated barrel although later models may have a standard barrel. An extra magazine can be attached to the front to act as a makeshift fore grip..

Here is System information for the CZ-75 Czechoslovakian 9mm Semi-Automatic Pistol:
The Alternate Designation is CZ 75.
The Manufacturer is Česká zbrojovka.
The In Service is 1976-present.
The Length is 206.3 mm (8.12 in).
The Barrel Length is 120 mm (4.7 in).
The Width is 32.6 mm (1.28 in).
The Height is 138 mm (5.4 in).
The Weight is 1.12 kg (2.5 lb).
The Rate of Fire is semi-automatic
CZ 75 Automatic: 1,000 RPM.
The Effective Firing Range is 25 m (for 9 mm CZ-75 family and CZ-75 automatic).
The Feed System is detachable box magazine, 12–26 rds depending on version and caliber.
The Sights is Front blade, rear square notch.

Here is Ammunition information for the CZ-75 Czechoslovakian 9mm Semi-Automatic Pistol:
The Type is Rifle.
The Caliber is 9mm.
The Cartridge is 9×19mm Parabellum
9×21mm.
The Basic Load is INA.

