This document describes the Sounder Norwegian Autonomous Surface Vehicle (ASV).

The Sounder Norwegian Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (AUV) supports quick and easy change of payload and is adaptable for both hull and bow-mounted systems. KONGSBERG’s K-MATE autonomy system provides safe navigation and control of the system, is capable of direct remote control, and supervised or autonomous operation. A robust and reliable propulsion system and hull design ensure safe sailing for up to 20 days.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Norway.

Here is System information for the Sounder Norwegian Autonomous Surface Vehicle (ASV):
The Alternative Designation is Sounder.
The Type is Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (AUV).
The Builder is Kongsberg.
The Crew is Autonomous.
The Missions is AUV USBL position aiding; Seismic support; LBL/USBL calibration and position fix MULTIBEAM ECHO SOUNDER; Hydrographic surveys; Harbor surveys; Search.
The Control System is K-MATE autonomy engine for direct, supervised, and autonomous operation.
The Containers and Launch and Recovery System is The ability to transport the vessel in standard shipping containers, allowing for efficient deployment anywhere in the world..

Here is Dimensions information for the Sounder Norwegian Autonomous Surface Vehicle (ASV):
The Length is 8.0 m.
The Height is 2.3 m / 4.4 m (mast down/up).
The Beam is 2.2 m.
The Draft is 0.7 m.
The Weight is 4,200 kg.

Here is Propulsion System information for the Sounder Norwegian Autonomous Surface Vehicle (ASV):
The Engine Name is Steyr, Model: INA.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 125 hp.
The Propeller is Fixed pitch propeller.
The Maximum Range is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 12 knots.
The Endurance is Up to 20 days @ 4 knots.

Here is Communications information for the Sounder Norwegian Autonomous Surface Vehicle (ASV):
The Maritime Radio is Maritime Broadband Radio (MBR).
The Iridium Satellite Communication System is Yes.

Here is Radar Systems information for the Sounder Norwegian Autonomous Surface Vehicle (ASV):
The Navigation Radar is INA.

Here is Sonar Systems information for the Sounder Norwegian Autonomous Surface Vehicle (ASV):
The Echo Sounder is 1 x ES80/EK80 echosounder.
The Fishery Sonar is 1 x SX95 fishery sonar for fish finding.

Here is Protection information for the Sounder Norwegian Autonomous Surface Vehicle (ASV):
The Hull is The hull shape ensures smooth sailing through the water, eliminating aeration and minimizing drag. A slim bow and the stabilizing fins dampen roll and pitch movement while the three rudders provide exceptional manoeuvrability..
The Countermeasures is No.
The NBC Water Washdown System is No.

