This document describes the RPD Russian 7.62mm Light Machine Gun.

The RPD is a 7.62mm light machine gun developed in the Soviet Union by Vasily Degtyaryov for the 7.62×39mm M43 intermediate cartridge. It was created as a replacement for the DP machine gun chambered for the 7.62×54mmR round. It is a precursor of most squad automatic weapons. It was succeeded in Soviet service by the RPK.

The RPD is an automatic weapon using a gas-operated long-stroke piston system and a locking system recycled from previous Degtyaryov small arms, consisting of a pair of hinged flaps set in recesses on each side of the receiver. The movement of these flaps and the resulting locking and unlocking action is controlled by carefully angled surfaces on the bolt carrier assembly. The weapon fires from an open bolt.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Benin, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Burundi, Cambodia, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Djibouti, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guinea, Hungary, Indonesia, Iraq, Israel, Ivory Coast, Laos (People's Democratic Republic), Lesotho, Libya, Mali, Malta, Mongolia, Morocco, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Pakistan, Peru, Romania, Rwanda, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zimbabwe.

Here is Variants information for the RPD Russian 7.62mm Light Machine Gun:
The Type 56 & 56-1 is Chinese version..
The Type 62 Light MG is North Korean version..
The M52 is Czech version..

Here is System information for the RPD Russian 7.62mm Light Machine Gun:
The Alternative Designation is Degtyarev.
The Operation is Gas.
The Fire Mode is Automatic.
The Mount is Bipod.
The Feed System is Metallic-link belt, 100-rd drum (containing belt). The Chinese copies may use 200-rd drums..
The Quick Change Barrel is No.
The Rate of Fire (Cyclic) is 600.
The Rate of Fire (Practical) is 150.

Here is Dimensions information for the RPD Russian 7.62mm Light Machine Gun:
The Overall Length is 1,037.
The Barrel Length is 520.
The Empty Weight (w/o magazine) is 7.
The Loaded (with magazine) is 13.

Here is M1943 (57N231S) information for the RPD Russian 7.62mm Light Machine Gun of the Ammunition:
The Caliber/length is 7.62x39-mm.
The Type is Ball, steel core.
The Effective Range is 800.
The Maximum Range is 800.
The Armor Penetration is 6 mm mild steel plate at 300 m
Steel helmet at 1,000 m
Flak vest at 60 m.
The Muzzle Velocity is 718.

Here is M1943 (T-45 or 57N231P) information for the RPD Russian 7.62mm Light Machine Gun of the Ammunition:
The Caliber/length is 7.62x39-mm.
The Type is Ball-Tracer.
The Effective Range is 800.
The Maximum Range is 800.
The Trace is 800.
The Muzzle Velocity is 718.

Here is M1943 information for the RPD Russian 7.62mm Light Machine Gun of the Ammunition:
The Caliber/length is 7.62x39-mm.
The Type is API.
The Armor Penetration is 8.
The Muzzle Velocity (m/s) is N/A.

Here is Sights information for the RPD Russian 7.62mm Light Machine Gun of the Sights:
The Type is Leaf sights.
The Sight Range (m) is 900 in 100 meter increments..
The Magnification is None.
The Night Sights Available is Yes.
The Note is The RPD is equipped with a set of open-type iron sights. These consist of a front post and a notched rear sight mounted on a tangent. Both the front and rear sights on the RPD are adjustable for windage and elevation. The front sight is adjusted up or down for elevation using a tool included in the issued cleaning kit. To adjust the front sight for windage, the smaller of the two wrenches on the multi-tool included in the issued cleaning kit is used to loosen the retaining bolt on the front sight clamp. The front sight can then be adjusted left or right for the correct windage, after which the retaining bolt is reinstalled to lock the sight into place. The rear sight is adjusted for elevation using a slider. The rear sight is marked in 100 meter increments from 100 to 1,000 meters. The rear sight is adjusted for windage using a knob on the left side of the rear sight. Because the front sight of the RPD must be partially disassembled in order to adjust windage, in practice the front sight would have been zeroed for windage and then locked in place. Adjustment for windage in the field would have been accomplished using the knob on the rear sight.

A number of RPDs were fitted with a side rail (attached to the left side of the receiver) to accept an NSP-2 night vision sight..

Here is Accessories information for the RPD Russian 7.62mm Light Machine Gun:
The Note is Standard accessories issued with the weapon include and sling, extra ammunition drums and belts (with either belt or shoulder pouches for same), oil bottle, cleaning rod (carried in a slot on the left side of the receiver), (stowed in a compartment inside the stock), and drop case.

The cleaning kit consists of a rectangular metal clam-shell case that typically contains the following tools and spare parts: pin punch (used for disassembling the bolt), cleaning jag, multi-tool (includes screwdriver, small and large wrenches used for adjusting the front sight and gas system, respectively, and a notch for installing and removing the cleaning jag on the cleaning rod), broken case extractor, front sight adjustment tool, gas tube scraping tool, gas port reamer, spare extractor, spare extractor spring, spare firing pin. There are a number of spring steel "fingers" on the lid of the clam-shell case which press on the contents of the cleaning kit when closed to prevent rattling. One end of the clam-shell case has a notch from which the screwdriver end of the multi-tool can protrude..

