This document describes the MILAN ER French Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM).

The Milan ER is the latest development of the combat-proven Milan weapon system that has already been selected by over 40 customers around the world. This latest generation high firepower weapon system has been specifically designed for land combat forces involved in sustained and demanding close combat operations. It combines precision and the versatility to address all the threats of the modern battlefield, static or moving, comprising the most heavily armed tanks as well as targets such as fortifications and infrastructures. It is suitable for both urban and open terrain thanks to Man In The Loop (MITL) operation for the avoidance of collateral damage, friendly fire and to comply with increasingly complex rules of engagement. The MILAN ER missile has a range extended to 3,000m and a new, multi-effect warhead that can penetrate 1,000mm explosive reactive armor (ERA) or rolled homogeneous armor (RHA), or more than 3m of reinforced concrete. A direct attack mode has been added as well as improved anti-jamming capability.

MILAN (French: Missile d'infanterie léger antichar; English: Light anti-tank infantry missile, Milan is French for kite) is a Western European anti-tank guided missile. The design of the MILAN started in 1962, it was ready for trials in 1971, and was accepted for service in 1972. It is a wire-guided SACLOS (semi-automatic command to line-of-sight) missile, which means the sight of the launch unit has to be aimed at the target to guide the missile. The MILAN can be equipped with a MIRA or MILIS thermal sight to give it night-firing ability.


MILAN is a product of Euromissile, a Franco-West German missile development program dating back to the 1960s. The system entered service in 1972 as a second-generation anti-tank weapon and soon became a standard anti-tank weapon throughout NATO, in use by most of the alliance's individual armies.

Consisting of two main components, the launcher, and the missile, the MILAN system utilizes a semi-automatic command to line of sight (SACLOS) command guidance system. It tracks the missile either by a tail-mounted infrared lamp or an electronic-flash lamp, depending on the model. Because it is guided by wire by an operator, the missile cannot be affected by radio jamming or flares. However, drawbacks include its short range, the exposure of the operator, problems with overland powerlines, and a vulnerability to infrared jammers such as Shtora that can prevent the automatic tracking of the missile's IR tail light.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Algeria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Burundi, Cameroon, Chad, Croatia, Cyprus, Egypt, Estonia, France, Gabon, Germany, Greece, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jordan, Kenya, Lebanon, Libya, Macedonia, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Oman, Portugal, Qatar, Senegal, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Syria, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay.

Here is Variants information for the MILAN ER French Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The MILAN 1 is Single, main shaped charge warhead (1972), calibre 103 mm.
The MILAN 2 is Single, main shaped charge warhead, with standoff probe to increase penetration (1984) – see photo to right, calibre 115 mm.
The MILAN 2T is Single main shaped charge, with smaller shape charge warhead at end of standoff probe to defeat reactive armour (1993).
The MILAN 3 is Tandem, shaped charge warheads (1996) and electronic beacon.
The MILAN ER is Extended range (3,000 m) and improved penetration.

Here is MILAN ER Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM) information for the MILAN ER French Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM) of the System:
The Alternate Designation is MILAN ER French Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM) System.
The Type is .
The Manufacturer is MBDA, MKEK (under license).
The Maximum Operational Range is 3,000 (Upgraded over earlier models).
The Minimum Operational Range is 25.
The Armor Penetration is 350.
The Missile Length is 918.
The Missile Diameter is 125.
The Wing Span is 267.
The Rate of Fire is 3-4.
The Total Weight with Launcher is 13.
The Warhead Type is New, multi-effect warhead with HEAT.
The Warhead Weight is 2.7.
The Warhead Diameter is 1158.
The Armor Penetration is penetrate 1,000mm explosive reactive armour (ERA) or rolled homogenous armour (RHA), or more than 3m of reinforced concrete.
The Guidance System is Infrared guidance system..
The Steering System is Jet deflector.
The Launch Platform is Individual, vehicle.
The Time of Flight to Max Range is 12.5.
The Missile Speed is 720.
The Charge Type is Tandem Charge, used against Reactive Armor.
The Thermal Sight is New Generation MILIS Thermal Sight from the SAGEM.
The Jamming Resistance is Yes, via the new CCD Localiser.
The Remote Operation Capable is Yes.
The Direct Attack Mode Capable is Yes.
The Note is The iconic MILAN is the most successful Western European anti-tank missile ever made and is only surpassed by the BGM-71 TOW when it comes to international customers..

