This document describes the Unitree GO1 Pro Chinese Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).

Unitree Go1 series consists of quadruped robots for the research & development of autonomous systems in the fields of robot-human interaction (HRI), SLAM & transportation. Due to the four legs, as well as the 12DOF, this robot can handle a variety of different terrains. The Go1 is Unitree’s latest device and comes with a perfected drive & power management system, which enables a speed (depending on the version) of up to 3.7m/s or 11.88km/h with an operating time of up to 2.5 hours.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is Variants information for the Unitree GO1 Pro Chinese Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Go1 Air is The differences are mainly the processors and sensor systems, the Air and Pro variant works, depending on the model, with one or 3x “4*1.43GHz 128Core 0.5T” processor as well as with 1 or 5 Super Sensor System. Both variants are equipped with 3 ultrasonic sensors..
The Go1 Pro is The differences are mainly the processors and sensor systems, the Air and Pro variant works, depending on the model, with one or 3x “4*1.43GHz 128Core 0.5T” processor as well as with 1 or 5 Super Sensor System. Both variants are equipped with 3 ultrasonic sensors..
The Go 1 Edu is The Go 1 Edu variant has up to 3 nano processors, 5x super sensor systems, and 4 ultrasonic sensors..

Here is System information for the Unitree GO1 Pro Chinese Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Alternate Designation is Unitree GO1 Pro.
The Type is Robotic Dog Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).
The Manufacturer is Unitree Robitics.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Controller is 1.
The Intelligent Side Follow System is Adopt Patented Wireless Vector Positioning and Control Technology
• Robot dog can walk alongside its owner and not only follow
• The human-machine interaction is both harmonious and safe.
The Super Sensory System is • Full View Coverage
• 5 Sets Fish-Eye Stereo Depth Cameras + AI Post-processing + 3 Sets of Hypersonic Sensors
• Lens Angle = 150 x 170°.
The AI is 16 core CPU + GPU (384Core, 1.5TFLOPS).
The Payload Capacity is 3 kg.

Here is Dimensions information for the Unitree GO1 Pro Chinese Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Length, Folded is 0.58 m.
The Width, Folded is 0.29 m.
The Height, Folded is 0.22 m.
The Weight is 12 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Unitree GO1 Pro Chinese Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Battery.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 17 km/h.
The Endurance is INA.

