This document describes the Giraffe 8A Swedish AESA 3D Long-Range Radar.

The Saab (formerly Ericsson Microwave Systems AB) Giraffe Radar is a family of land and naval two- or three-dimensional G/H-band (4 to 8 GHz) passive electronically scanned array radar-based surveillance and air defense command and control systems tailored for operations with medium- and Short Range Air Defense (SHORAD) missile or gun systems or for use as gap-fillers in a larger air defense system. The radar gets its name from the distinctive folding mast which when deployed allows the radar to see over nearby terrain features such as trees, extending its effective range against low-level air targets. The first systems were produced in 1977. By 2007, some 450 units of all types are reported as having been delivered.

*Utilising identical antenna in fixed, transportable and mobile versions of the radar system
*Unmatched operational performance against small targets and tactical ballistic missiles with its non-rotating mode
*Offers enhanced real time identification and passive tracking functionality

The Giraffe 8A is a 3D Long-Range AESA radar system on the S-band, designed for the highest level of situational awareness and ballistic missile defence.

It is offered in versions for fixed, transportable and mobile applications, all providing exceptional range, search volume and multi-role capabilities, combined with outstanding operational flexibility. Today and in the future.

Long-range air surveillance / early warning identification
The capability to rapidly detect, track and report all air-breathing targets within the sensor coverage.

Ballistic missile defence operations
Detects, tracks and reports short/medium range ballistic missiles. Provides simultaneous weapons queuing and C2 reporting in order to significantly reduce time from warning to engagement.

Operational in all climate zones
Giraffe 8A is speciﬁed for operation in extreme climates, ranging from inland, coastal and hot desert to Arctic environments.

Reliability
Giraffe 8A is very reliable and easy to operate. Redundant design and the AESA concept makes the time between critical failure extremely long.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Germany, Norway, Sweden, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of).

Here is Variants information for the Giraffe 8A Swedish AESA 3D Long-Range Radar:
The Giraffe 40 is This is a short-range (40 kilometres (25 mi) instrumented) air defense radar with command and control capability. It employs a folding antenna mast that extends to a height of 13 metres (43 ft) when deployed and can be integrated with an Interrogation Friend or Foe (IFF) capability. Coverage is stated to be from ground level to 10,000 metres (33,000 ft) in altitude. In Swedish service the radar is designated PS-70 and PS-701 and provides target data to RBS-70 SHORADS missiles and 40mm Bofors guns. A more powerful version with a 60 kW transmitter is known commercially as Super Giraffe and in Swedish service as PS-707. These radars are no longer marketed..
The Giraffe 50AT is This is the model used in the Norwegian NALLADS air defense system which combines the radar and RBS-70 missiles with 20 mm anti-aircraft guns to provide low-level air defense for the combat brigades of the Norwegian army. Mounted on a BV-206 all-terrain tracked vehicle this version has an instrumented range of 50 km (31 mi). The antenna extends to a height of 7 metres (23 ft) and the system can control up to 20 firing units of guns or missiles or a combination of both. The Command and Control system features fully automatic track initiation, target tracking, target identification (IFF), target classification and designation, hovering helicopter detection threat evaluation and handling of "pop-up" targets. It can also exchange data with Giraffe 75 or AMB systems as part of a larger network.
The Giraffe 75 is This features a 13 metres (43 ft) antenna mast and is normally carried on a 6x6 5-ton cross-country truck which carries the radar and command and control shelter. Instrumented range is 75 km (47 mi) and altitude coverage extends from ground-level to 10,000 metres (33,000 ft). An optional add-on unit extends the radars coastal defense capabilities. In Swedish service the radar is designated PS-90.[3] In the Greek Air Force Giraffe 75 is used in combination with Contraves (now Rheinmetall defense) Skyguard/Sparrow fire control systems. 1 Giraffe typically controls 2 Skyguard systems each with 2 twin 35 mm GDF-005 guns and 2 Sparrow surface-to-air missile launchers..
The Giraffe S is Optimized as a mobile radar for un-manned remote-controlled applications as a "gap-filler" in air defense early warning systems concentrating on small, low-flying targets over a long distance. It can also be employed as a coastal surveillance radar where targets are small surface vessels and sea-skimming missiles or aircraft. A new antenna extends range coverage to 180 km (110 mi) with altitude coverage from ground level to 6,000 metres (20,000 ft). The antenna mast extends to 8 metres (26 ft)..
The Giraffe AMB is Giraffe Agile Multi Beam is a passive electronically scanned array radar, providing multi-beam 3-Dimensional air coverage at 5.4 to 5.9 GHz with instrumented ranges of 30 km (19 mi), 60 km (37 mi) and 100 km (62 mi), the altitude coverage is extended from ground-level to 20,000 metres (66,000 ft) with 70-degree elevation coverage. Data rate is 1-scan per-second. Its maintained pulse density suppresses high cluttering in adverse weather conditions. Ultra-low antenna side-lobes combined with pulse-to-pulse and burst-to-burst frequency agility provides some resistance to jamming. As in previous Giraffe radars automatic hovering helicopter detection is provided as is a rocket, artillery and mortar locating function, allowing the radar to detect incoming rounds and give 20 seconds or more of warning before impact. Giraffe AMB is the principal sensor of the Swedish RBS 23 BAMSE air defense missile system but is available for many other applications. The Giraffe AMB can be delivered with ground surveillance options fitted. A skilled crew can deploy the radar in around 10 minutes and recover it in around 6 minutes..
The ARTE 740 is This is a coastal defense radar based on the Giraffe 75 antenna and Giraffe AMB processing system optimized for surface and low-altitude coverage for the Swedish Amphibious Forces (formerly the Coastal Artillery). It is mounted on a MOWAG Piranha 10x10 armored vehicle. 6 systems are in service..
The Sea Giraffe AMB is Saab's Sea Giraffe AMB is the naval variant of their Giraffe radar with 3D AMB technology. It can detect air and surface targets from the horizon up to a height of 20,000 metres (66,000 ft) at elevations up to 70°, and can simultaneously handle multiple threats approaching from different directions and altitudes, including diving anti-ship missiles. Also, it is specialized for rapidly detecting small, fast moving targets at all altitudes and small surface targets in severe clutter. Sea Giraffe AMB is installed on the Republic of Singapore Navy's upgraded Victory-class corvette and US Navy's Independence class of Littoral Combat Ships, and has the designation AN/SPS 77 V for LCS 2 and 4, and AN/SPS 77 V for LCS 6 and higher. It has also been chosen for the Royal Canadian Navy's new Protecteur-class Joint Support Ships. The radar has an instrumented range of 180 kilometres. Its roles include:

*Air surveillance and tracking
*Surface surveillance and tracking
*Target identification for weapon systems
*High-resolution splash spotting.
The AESA is Saab Electronic Defence Systems (EDS) in May 2014 unveiled two new classes of active electronically scanned array (AESA) radar—three land-based systems (Giraffe 1X, Giraffe 4A and Giraffe 8A) and two naval variants (Sea Giraffe 1X and Sea Giraffe 4A)..
The Giraffe 8A is At the top end of the range is the Giraffe 8A, a long-range IEEE S-band (NATO E/F) 3D sensor that can be produced in fixed, transportable and fully mobile configurations.

Intended primarily for remote operation as part of an integrated air defence network, Giraffe 8A can also be operated locally. It has an instrumented range of 470 km and an altitude capability of more than 40,000m, bringing true long-range air defence capability to the Saab radar family for the first time. Giraffe 8A produces 15 stacked beams to provide elevation coverage from ground level to more than 65°. It can operate in a continuous 360° scan mode, rotating mechanically at 24rpm, or can be steered electronically across an operator-specified sector of 40° to 100°. More than 1,000 air defence tracks can be maintained, and the system also has anti-ballistic missile capability, in which case more than 100 tracks can be followed.

Saab has paid special attention to Giraffe 8A's electronic counter-countermeasures properties. The radar generates very low sidelobes and incorporates sophisticated frequency agility in pulse-to-pulse, burst-to-burst and scan-to-scan regimes. It also switches and staggers pulse repetition frequency and transmits random jitter to further confuse countermeasures. It automatically selects the least jammed frequencies and can transmit intermittently or randomly. The radar offers a passive detection and tracking capability against jammers..
The Giraffe 4A is While the Giraffe 8A occupies the high end of the family, Saab has introduced new radars in the medium-range category in the form of Giraffe 4A and Sea Giraffe 4A for naval use.

Employing similar S-band technology to the larger radar, Giraffe 4A offers true 3D multirole capability, combining the air defence and weapon locating tasks in a single unit.

Able to be airlifted in a single C-130 load, Giraffe 4A can be deployed by two people in less than 10 minutes. It can operate as a standalone..
The GIRAFFE 1X is To complete its new line-up, Saab has introduced two short-range radars, Giraffe 1X and Sea Giraffe 1X. Working in the IEEE X-band (NATO I-band), Giraffe 1X is intended primarily as a highly mobile radar that can work with very short-range air defence systems in the battlefield or at sea.

Weighing less than 300 kg, Giraffe 1X can be mounted on a small vehicle or vessel or in fixed installations such as on a building or a mast. The radar has a sense-and-warn function and can be optionally configured for weapon location..

Here is System information for the Giraffe 8A Swedish AESA 3D Long-Range Radar:
The Alternative Designation is Giraffe 8A Radar.
The Type is Multi-Mission Surveillance.
The Manufacturer is SAAB.
The Family is Giraffe Radar.
The In Service is INA.
The Crew is 2.
The Emplacement Time is 10 min.
The Displacement Time is 5 min.
The Multi-Role Capability is With Giraffe 8A the integrated Air Defence System will be enhanced with a sensor suite to allow constant 24/7 air surveillance over the assigned area of responsibility. The Giraffe 8A will simultaneously search for, detect, track and report short to medium range ballistic missiles..
The Operational Flexibility is f the situation dictates, the commanding officer can choose between search in the entire 360° volume or an optimised search in a sector (40°-100°). Both with coverage up to 65° of elevation.

*Extended range
*Fast update
*Low observable targets.
The Identification is Giraffe 8A can be offered with a set of integrated Electronic Identification capabilities:

*IFF Mode 5 & S
*Target Classification
*Integrated Electronic Support Measures (ESM)
*Passive tracking if in network.
The Survivability is Much emphasis has been put on ECCM performance in the design of Giraffe 8A. This includes:

*Ultra-low side-lobes
*Frequency agility; pulse to pulse, burst to burst, and scan to scan frequency agility
*PRF switching and PRF stagger with random jitters
*Intermittent (or random) transmission, to confuse hostile ESMs and Anti-Radiation Missiles
*Automatic selection of least jammed frequency
*Automatic jammer detection and tracking in both
azimuth and elevation.
The Operated Locally or Remotely is Giraffe 8A is designed to be operated by remote control (primary method of operation). For local maintenance the system can be operated by a ruggedised PC in close connection to the system. The Remote Control System is designed to give the operators full operational control of the sensor system. Although the radar system normally will operate unattended, all modes and functions can be remotely adjusted and controlled. The remote control functionality also
includes system monitoring and system diagnostics..
The Integrated Logistics Support (ILS) is ILS is an important part of the system delivery and will form the basis for
future maintenance. Saab ILS experts have solid experience in tailoring ILS deliveries together with customers worldwide..
The Small Target Detection is New AESA technology allows new functionality to detect and track small targets also at longer ranges..

Here is Dimensions information for the Giraffe 8A Swedish AESA 3D Long-Range Radar:
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Weight, Combat is INA.

Here is Automotive information for the Giraffe 8A Swedish AESA 3D Long-Range Radar:
The Note is INA.

Here is Radar System information for the Giraffe 8A Swedish AESA 3D Long-Range Radar:
The Name is Giraffe 8A.
The Type is Stacked beam 3D radar.
The Antenna Type is AESA, digital beam forming.
The Frequency is S (E/F) band.
The Elevation Coverage is > 65 degrees.
The Rotation Rate is 24 RPM.
The Search Volume is 360° or in a sector.
The Air Surveillance is 470 km.

