This document describes the Roland-3 French Short-Range Air Defense (SHORAD) System.

All-weather self-propelled short-range air defense system "Roland-3" is designed and manufactured by EADS Euromissile and MBDA. Roland-3" SAM system is the result of consistent modernization of the family of anti-aircraft systems "Roland". It was adopted for service in 1988. The first serial models of the complex entered into service of the German Air Force air defense units and were used to cover German and American military airfields. 20 "Roland-3" complexes are in service with the German Airborne Division of the German Navy and are used for air defense of airfields, on which the Tornado fighter-bombers and Atlantic base patrol aircraft are based. The complex is mounted on various landing gears. In the German Armed Forces, it is mounted on the chassis of a 10-ton truck with cross-country ability MAN (8x8). The air-transportable shelter variant, which received the designation "Roland Carol" (produced by SOFRAME) was adopted in 1995. In the French army "Roland Carol" SAM is placed on a semi-trailer towed by ACMAT (6x6), in the German Armed Forces it is installed on the MAN (6x6) chassis. Now the "Roland Carol" is in service with the French army (20 systems) and the German Air Force (11 systems).

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: France, Germany, Spain, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of).

Here is Variants information for the Roland-3 French Short-Range Air Defense (SHORAD) System:
The Roland-1 is The original version of the system (later designated "Roland-1") was semi-automatic and non-weather. During the years of its service the complex was repeatedly upgraded. In 1981, the all-weather SAM system "Roland-2" was adopted for service and the program of modernization of some previously produced complexes "Roland-1" to the level of "Roland-2" was carried out (which increased the cost of the complex by 40%). In 1988 the improved automatic "Roland-3" was tested and put into production..
The Roland-2 is All-weather self-propelled anti-aircraft missile system "Roland-2" with a radar tracking system for target and missile tracking was developed by the company "Messerchmitt-Bolkow-Blohm" (Germany) together with "Aerospatiale-Matra" (France) and is capable of destroying targets flying at speeds up to M=1.2 at altitudes from 15m to 5.5 km and ranges from 500m to 6.3 km. Originally the complex was designed to meet the needs of the Bundeswehr, however, due to the obvious advantage of the new complex over the previously released Roland-1 SAM system, the French Army command decided to convert part of its Roland-1 systems into the Roland-2 version. Such a possibility was envisaged by the developers even at the stage of the complex creation..
The Roland-3 is All-weather self-propelled short-range air defense system "Roland-3" is designed and manufactured by EADS Euromissile and MBDA. Roland-3" SAM system is the result of consistent modernization of the family of anti-aircraft systems "Roland". It was adopted for service in 1988. The first serial models of the complex entered into service of the German Air Force air defense units and were used to cover German and American military airfields. 20 "Roland-3" complexes are in service with the German Airborne Division of the German Navy and are used for air defense of airfields, on which the Tornado fighter-bombers and Atlantic base patrol aircraft are based..
The American Roland is This variant was built in the United States. The launcher on pallet can be fitted to XM795 chassis (based on M109 self-propelled howitzer chassis). It is deployed on M812 6 x 6 trucks. There were Hughes Aircraft manufactured radars and electro-optical sight and missile electronics. Boeing Aerospace produced the launcher, warhead, aft section of missile..
The AMX-30 chassis is The variant is a standard AMX-30 tank chassis with a Roland launcher. France, Nigeria, Iraq, Qatar and Spain operated this system..
The Marder chassis is This is a standard Marder APC chassis with Roland launcher. It is in service in Brazil and Germany..
The Shelter-mounted systems is These systems were exported to Argentina, Iraq and Venezuela..
The MAN 8 x 8 FlakRakRad is This variant is an eight-wheel-drive vehicle with a shelter mounted on chassis between front and rear sets of axles. There is a digital fire-control processor and four launch tubes..
The Paladin is The Paladin was a competitor in the 1987 line-of-sight-forward-heavy (LOS-F-H) component trials of the U.S. Forward Area Air Defense System (FAADS). It was tested on a modified M109 self-propelled gun chassis. It could be combined with a Euromissile launcher and missile with Hughes Aircraft surveillance and tracking radars..
The Glaive is Glaive was a Franco-German programme under which Euromissile would develop a revised Roland fire unit for use with the RM5 missile. This would add an integrated thermal sighting system with laser rangefinder allowing for night/all-weather operation without using the radar. Contracts were issued in 1989 with the system intended to enter service in 1996. However, development of RM5 was cancelled in 1991.
The Roland M3S (upgrade) is This variant prototype was offered to Thailand and Turkey, though it was not procured. It utilizes a Dassault Electronique Rodeo 4 radar or a Thomson-CSF radar system. The M3S is operable by one person, preferably two..
The Roland NDV is NDV, NutzungsDauerVerlängert, Extended Service Life. This was a German parallel to the French M3S, being developed by LFK GmbH for the German government. The control system was to be digitized and integrated into the HFLaAFüSys air-defence command and control system, with Roland 3 missile integration. Germany had a requirement to upgrade 84 Army (FlaRakPz 1A2) and 40 Luftwaffe (FlaRakRad) fire units. Trials had been completed in 2003 when Germany decided to withdraw Roland from use..
The Roland Carol is Conversion of existing French Roland 2 systems into a shelter-mounted version of the M3S standard. France procured 20 trailer-borne systems. France intended the shelterised variants for use with air-transported rapid-deployment forces. The upgraded fire unit could use either the existing Roland missile or the new Roland 3 missile..
The Roland MX/Jason is From 1969 Euromissile studied Roland as a possible naval weapon for shipboard installation. Originally known as Roland MX and later as Jason, the standard twin launcher (without search radar) with two below-decks 8-round reloading drums could be installed on a standard sized module that was featured in several Blohm & Voss MEKO frigate proposals of the 1970s. No prototype or production systems were built with attention turning early on to an abortive vertically launched missile..

Here is System information for the Roland-3 French Short-Range Air Defense (SHORAD) System:
The Alternative Designation is Roland-3.
The Type is Short-Range Air Defense (SHORAD) System.
The Manufacturer is The main work on the complex was carried out by the German company "Messerchmitt-Bolkow-Blohm" (MIB) and the French company "Aerospatiale-Matra"..
The Chassis is MAN SX45 8x8 Heavy High Mobility Truck.
The Chassis Note is The complex is mounted on various landing gears. In the German Armed Forces it is mounted on the chassis of a 10-ton truck with cross-country ability MAN (8x8). The air transportable shelter variant, which received the designation "Roland Carol" (produced by SOFRAME) was adopted in 1995. In the French army "Roland Carol" SAM is placed on a semi-trailer towed by ACMAT (6x6), in the German Armed Forces it is installed on the MAN (6x6) chassis. Now the "Roland Carol" is in service with the French army (20 systems) and the German Air Force (11 systems)..
The Crew is 3 (a gunner-operator, a commander-operator and a mechanic-driver)..
The Composition is The Roland-3 complex includes a guidance system consisting of a three-axis X-band round-scan radar with a range and maximum altitude of target detection of 25 km and 9 km, respectively, identification device "your own", target tracking radars and missiles. There is an electron-optical visier equipped with an infrared direction finder. The range of detection with the help of electron-optical means of a complex of targets such as aircraft - up to 20 km, for the purposes of "helicopter" - 10 km. The tracking system includes radar and dual-band optical-electronic channels operating in parallel, with automatic selection of the optimal channel and the ability to switch between the channels at any time, including after starting the LSD. Range of radar and optical-electronic channels of tracking up to 20 km..
The Unit Structure is The Roland-3 is typically operated as part of an air defense regiment, which would have been expected to consist of four batteries with eight Roland launch vehicles each, as well as a command and maintenance unit..

Here is Dimensions (Chassis: MAN SX45 8x8 Heavy High Mobility Truck) information for the Roland-3 French Short-Range Air Defense (SHORAD) System:
The Length is 10.5 m.
The Width is 2.55 m.
The Height is 3.92 m.
The Weight, Empty is 13-21 tons.
The Weight, Combat is INA.

Here is Automotive (Chassis: MAN SX45 8x8 Heavy High Mobility Truck) information for the Roland-3 French Short-Range Air Defense (SHORAD) System:
The Engine Name is MAN D2066 LFG.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 440 hp.
The Power-to-Weight Ratio is INA.
The Fuel Capacity is INA.
The Amphibious is No.
The Maximum Speed is 88 km/h.
The Range is 750 km.
The Gradient is 60%.
The Side Slope is 40%.
The Vertical Obstacle is 0.6 m.
The Trench is 1.9 m.

Here is System information for the Roland-3 French Short-Range Air Defense (SHORAD) System of the Main Weapon System:
The Name is Roland-3 TELAR.
The Type is Transporter Erector Launcher and Radar (TELAR) System.
The Elevation is INA.
The Traverse is INA.
The Modes of Operation is Optical and Radar.
The Guidance System is SACLOS radio command guidance. The system has two modes of operation, optical and radar, with possible switching from one to the other during an engagement..
The Rate of Fire is 1st shooting: 8 to 10 seconds;
later shooting: 2 to 6 seconds.
The Reload Time is 10 seconds.
The Reaction Time is SAM reaction time (time between target detection and the beginning of automatic tracking) 6c - in radar mode and 3.5c in passive mode. The missile can be launched in 2 seconds after receiving the target for escort. The next missile can be launched on target in 2s after the previous target has been hit. Recharge time 6-10s. A new set of missiles can be charged within 2-5 minutes..
The Feed System is Ammunition Complex:  10 x rockets "Roland-3 rockets" (2 x rockets on the launching rails located on the sides of the rotating tower, 8 x rockets in two drum magazines inside the body of the car).  Recharging is automatic..

Here is Missile (Option #1) information for the Roland-3 French Short-Range Air Defense (SHORAD) System of the Main Weapon System:
The Name is Roland-3 Surface-to-Air Missile.
The Type is Surface-to-Air Missile.
The Length is 2.4 m.
The Diameter is 160 mm.
The Wingspan is 0.5 m.
The Weight is 75 kg.
The Warhead is HE fragmentation. a 9.2 kg warhead that contains 5 kg of explosives and 84 projectile charges to increase its lethality..
The Warhead Weight is 9.2 kg.
The Engine is Two-stage Roxel (Fr) SD extruded double base solid propellant-powered missile..
The Guidance System is SACLOS radio command guidance.
The Flight Control is The ZUR flight control is gas-dynamic and is provided by the jet deflection of the marching engine..
The Fuze is Type: Impact, proximity. An improved proximity fuze coupled with a new 5,000 m/s maximum velocity fragmentation pattern..
The Maximum Speed is 2,052 km/h.
The Flight Time is 16 seconds.
The Maximum Range is 8.0 km.
The Minimum Range is 0.5 m.
The Maximum Altitude is 6,000 m.
The Minimum Altitude is 10 m.
The Shrapnel Impact Radius is up to 5 m.
The Basic Load is 2 x missiles are carried ready to launch and another eight are carried in two revolver-type magazines, each of which holds four rounds. The missile container also serves as the launch tube..

Here is Missile (Option #2) information for the Roland-3 French Short-Range Air Defense (SHORAD) System of the Main Weapon System:
The Name is Roland-2 Surface-to-Air Missile.
The Type is Surface-to-Air Missile.
The Length is 2.4 m.
The Diameter is 160 mm.
The Wingspan is 0.5 m.
The Weight is 66.5 kg.
The Warhead is HE-FRAG Warhead.
The Warhead Weight is 6.5 kg, including 3.3 kg of explosive that is detonated either by impact or a TRT electromagnetic continuous wave radar-type proximity fuze..
The Engine is The 1600 kg SNPE Roubaix solid propellant launch engine has a thrust of 1.7 s and accelerates the missile to a speed of 500 m/sec. The SNPE Lampyre launch engine has a running time of 13.2 seconds..
The Guidance System is SACLOS radio command guidance.Guidance of the missile to the target can be carried out with the help of optical infrared sight, with the deviations of the ZUR from the given course are entered into the counting and solving device, and guidance commands are automatically transmitted to the board of the missile by the command transmitter. Guidance is also possible by means of a dual-channel monopulse radar for target and missile tracking. The transmitter of this radar is mounted on a magnetron..
The Flight Control is The ZUR flight control is gas-dynamic and is provided by the jet deflection of the marching engine..
The Fuze is impact, proximity..
The Maximum Speed is 1,800 km/h.
The Flight Time is The flight time for the maximum range is 13-15 seconds..
The Maximum Range is 6.3 km.
The Minimum Range is 0.5 km.
The Maximum Altitude is 5,500 m.
The Minimum Altitude is 10 m.
The Shrapnel Impact Radius is up to 5 m.
The Basic Load is 2 x missiles are carried ready to launch and another eight are carried in two revolver-type magazines, each of which holds four rounds. The missile container also serves as the launch tube..

Here is Radar System information for the Roland-3 French Short-Range Air Defense (SHORAD) System:
The Surveillance Radar is 1 x Siemens MPDR 16 Pulse-Doppler Surveillance Radar..
The Type is Pulse-Doppler Surveillance Radar..
The Frequency is D-Band.
The Rotation Rate is 60 rpm.
The IFF Interrogator is 1 x Siemens MSR-400/5 (German vehicles) or 1 x LMT NRAI-6A (French vehicles) IFF system..
The Automatically Suppresses Fixed Echoes is Yes.
The Time of Target Detection is does not exceed 4 seconds..
The AIr Target Detection Speed is 30-500 m/s at a range of up to 18 km (with an effective reflecting area of 1 m2)..
The Acquisition Range is 1.5 to 16.5 km for a 1 m2 target operating between speeds of 50 and 450 m/s and can be folded down behind the turret rear for transport..
The Tracking Radar is 1 x  two-channel, monopulse Doppler microwave Thales Domino 30 system; one channel tracks the target and the second locks in on a microwave source on the missile..
The Note is The radar is capable of detecting hovering helicopters..

Here is Fire Control System information for the Roland-3 French Short-Range Air Defense (SHORAD) System:
The Name is INA.
The Type is Command guidance with dual tracking mode..
The Tracking Mode is Fire control radar with optical tracker..

Here is Protection information for the Roland-3 French Short-Range Air Defense (SHORAD) System:
The Hull Armor is Protection against 7.62x39 mm rounds, artillery shell splinters, grenades, small anti-personnel mines..
The Turret Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is Yes, armored modules are attached to the outside of the cab. Armored kit can be installed within 10 hours in field conditions..
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is INA.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

Here is Command Post Vehicle information for the Roland-3 French Short-Range Air Defense (SHORAD) System:
The Name is 1 x Flugabwehrgefechtsstand Roland (FGR) Command Post Vehicle. In Bundeswehr service, a battery of Roland Family launchers would normally be equipped with 1 x FGR Command post vehicle..
The Chassis is MAN 8x8 Truck.
The Communication Suite is Radio or wire links while the voice links use either 1 x SEL SEM 80 and 1 x SEM 90 radios or field telephones carry out data transfer to and from the weapons systems..
The 2D Radar is 1 x TRM-L 2 D radar with integrated IFF..
The Radar Frequency is D-Band.
The Radar Maximum Elevation Coverage is 60° within altitude limits of very low level to 6o km..
The Radar Detection Range is Detection range against a 1 m2 target in high-intensity ECM and clutter is said to be 46 km with a maximum radar range of 60 km claimed..
The Displacement Time is less than 15 min..
The Emplacement Time is less than 15 min..
The Note is The FGR detects the targets (thus allowing the Roland fire units to shut down their surveillance radars so as to improve their own survivability), processes the target information, and displays it on an air situation display with an indication of the nature of the threat..

