This document describes the Bobcat S650 American Skid-Steer Loader.

The Bobcat® S650 skid-steer loader is a vertical lift path model in the 600 frame size. It offers increased lifting capacity and provides greater forward reach at full lift height for loading trucks. The Tier 4 diesel engine delivers power and performance.

The new Bobcat® S650 skid steer loader is part of the M-Series. With its vertical lift path, the S650 gives you increase lifting capacity and provides greater forward reach at full lift height for loading over dump trucks. Like all M-Series models, the S650 has an industry-leading cab design that offers improved visibility and operator-friendly features such as cab forward design with the optional pressurized cab, air ride seats and seat-mounted joysticks. The S650 has powerful hydraulics, top digging and pushing power, and increased fuel capacity. Stay productive with simple maintenance checks and simple design. To help you become even more productive, Bobcat offers more attachments for more carriers than anyone in the industry. Bobcat is the only major compact equipment company that manufactures a majority of its attachments.

12-Volt Power Accessory: Your cab is your office. That’s why Bobcat installed a 12-volt power accessory for charging your mobile phone, MP3 player or other accessories.

Air-Ride Seats: Achieve optimum suspension comfort with the optional air-ride seat. Air suspension adjusts to your weight, helping you smooth out the bumps on your jobsite and increasing your comfort.

Better Visibility: Visibility has been significantly increased in all directions. The rear window is 14% larger and the size of the top window is now 43% larger, providing a big advantage when loading a truck or using attachments with raised lift arms.

Cab-Forward Design: The new design moves the operator area closer to the attachment and gives you a better vantage point for your work area.

Convenient Engine Speed Controls: The engine speed control has been moved out in front of the operator, on the right-hand corner post of the cab.

Convenient Storage: New storage bins are located throughout the machine. Store items wherever it’s convenient!

Cup Holders: The cup holders hold 20oz. soda bottles all the way up to super-sized cups and coffee mugs.

Deluxe Instrumentation Panel: This intelligent Bobcat option helps you prevent theft with keyless start and enables better operation by closely monitoring and interacting with your machine. A new 4.5-inch LED screen with full-color capability offers increased readability and interaction. Easy-to-read virtual sweep gauges allow you to quickly read and understand operation levels.

Easy-Pull, Easy-Secure Side Window: Simply pull the new window knob to slide the side window to five lockable positions. The window stays exactly where you want it to get consistent air flow.

Extra Elbow Room, Easier Cleaning: Windows are mounted on the outside of the Roll-Over Protection System (ROPS) – which provides extra elbow room in the cab, and makes window cleaning much faster.

Fingertip Controls: Attachments are more comfortable to operate, controlled easily and adjusted simply from the fingertip controls.

Flexible Joystick Positioning / Seat-Mounted Joystick Control: Joystick mounts on our SJC- equipped (Selectable Joystick Controls) machines slide forward and backward independent of the seat, adjusting to the individual comfort positions of different-sized operators. The seat-mounted joystick control provides flexible control through seat-mounted joysticks on models with optional SJC; as the suspension seat shifts up and down, the joysticks move with the seat.

Foot Well Cleaning Access: Two cleanout holes in the foot well allow for easier removal of mud and debris that enter the cab.

Heat and Air Conditioning: Because our optional AC units are integrated into the machine, there is no bulky add-on unit to obstruct your visibility. Automotive-style vents allow you to point the air where you need it for greater comfort in all weather conditions.

Large Entry/Exit: On machines with enclosed cabs, Bobcat provides a large swing open door to make it easier to enter and exit the cab. A lowered door threshold gives you increased visibility to your attachment and the surrounding work area – making it easier to see and do your work.

More Room: Our stronger, narrower loader arms make a wider cab possible, with up to 20% more interior space than competitors, keeping you comfortable.

Operator Switches:Puts important controls in front of you on the cab corner posts.

Pressurized Cab: Bobcat loaders with enclosed cabs have a best-in-class, pressurized interior space that helps keep dust to a minimum. A new, one-piece pressure seat engages the entire door on the front and sides, compressing the door seal into a specialized curved door pocket keeping dust and debris out of the cab.

Radio Capable: Order your loader with a stereo to increase your comfort. The radio features an auxiliary audio input jack that is ready for an MP3 player or other audio device.

Rear Defrost:Defrosts the new, larger rear window with new rear air ducts.

Suspension Seat: Other comfort items include an optional fully adjustable suspension seat, adjusting easily to the operator’s weight.

Features	S650:
Joystick Control	
Air Conditioning	
Adjustable Seat	
Backup Alarm	
BICS System (Interlock)	
Cab Enclosure	
Sound Option	
Cab Heater	
Operating Lights	
Parking Brake	
Radio	
Rear Window	
Top Window	
Lift-Arm Support	
Seat Belt	
Suspension Seat	
Two Speed Travel	
Deluxe Instrumentation	
Engine Shutdown	
Hydraulic Bucket Positioning	
High Flow Option	
Auxiliary Hydraulics	
Spark Arrestor Muffler	
Bob-Tach Attachment System	
Power Bob-Tach	
ACS (Switchable Controls)	
Ride Control	
Rear Hydraulics

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Australia, United States of America.

Here is System information for the Bobcat S650 American Skid-Steer Loader:
The Alternative Designation is Bobcat S650 Skid Steer Loader.
The Type is Skid Steer Loader.
The Manufactuer is Bobcat.
The Crew is 1.
The Rated Operating Capacity (SAE) is 2690 lbs.
The Tipping Load is 5380 lbs.
The Turning Radius is 82.9 in.

Here is Dimensions information for the Bobcat S650 American Skid-Steer Loader:
The Length without Attachment is 108.4 in.
The Length with Standard Bucket is 136.8 in.
The Width is 72.1 in.
The Width (with bucket) is 74 in.
The Height is 81.3 in.
The Height with Operator Cab is 81.3 in.
The Height to Bucket Hinge Pin is 124 in.
The Operating Weight is 8327 lbs.
The Reach @ Maximum Height is 31.5 in.
The Wheelbase is 45.3 in.

Here is Automotive information for the Bobcat S650 American Skid-Steer Loader:
The Engine Name is S650.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Cooling is Liquid.
The Engine Power is 74.3 HP.
The Turbocharged Engine is Yes.
The Travel Speed is 7.1 mph.
The Travel Speed (2-speed option) is 12.3 mph.
The Fuel Tank is 27.2 gal.
The System Relief @ Quick Couplers is 3500 psi.
The Auxiliary Std Flow is 23 GPM.
The Auxiliary High Flow is 30.5 GPM.

Here is Protection information for the Bobcat S650 American Skid-Steer Loader:
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is No.
The Mine Clearing is Yes.
The NBC Protection is No.
The Smoke Equipment is No.

