This document describes the Type GLM-120A Chinese Mechanized Roadway-Laying System.

The Type GLM-120A Chinese Mechanized Roadway-Laying System is typically used to prepare exit points on beaches and river-crossing points that can be rapidly made unserviceable by heavy vehicles, delaying the assault.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is Variants information for the Type GLM-120A Chinese Mechanized Roadway-Laying System:
The Type GLM-123 is The Type GLM-123 is deployed from the machine manually or simply by hand. It can be used on slopes up to 20%, which is especially important during amphibious operations. Mechanical deployment of 120 meters of web width 4 meters takes 5 minutes; It can withstand tracked vehicles weighing up to 25 tons and wheeled vehicles with axle loads up to 10 tons..

Here is System information for the Type GLM-120A Chinese Mechanized Roadway-Laying System:
The Alternative Designation is Type GLM-120A.
The Type is Mechanized Roadway-Laying System.
The Manufacturer is INA.
The Chassis is Mercedes-Benz 6x6 truck.
The Crew is 2.
The Emplacement Time is Less than 5 min.
The Displacement Time is Less than 10 min.

Here is Roadway System information for the Type GLM-120A Chinese Mechanized Roadway-Laying System:
The System is The system comprises a roll of deployable track ‘roadway’ mounted longitudinally on the back of a locally built 6x6 Mercedes-Benz truck..
The Operation is In operation, it is traversed through 90° and the truck reverses on to the roadway as it is laid.
The Roadway Length is 40 m.
The Roadway Width is 4 m.
The Maximum Continuous Weight, Tracked Vehicles is 60 tons.
The Maximum Continuous Weight, Wheeled Vehicles is 20 tons.

Here is Dimensions (Chassis) information for the Type GLM-120A Chinese Mechanized Roadway-Laying System:
The Note is Mercedes-Benz 6x6 truck.

Here is Automotive (Chassis) information for the Type GLM-120A Chinese Mechanized Roadway-Laying System:
The Note is Mercedes-Benz 6x6 truck.

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Type GLM-120A Chinese Mechanized Roadway-Laying System:
The Note is There are no crew-served weapons associated with the Type GLM-120A Chinese Mechanized Roadway-Laying System.

Here is Protection information for the Type GLM-120A Chinese Mechanized Roadway-Laying System:
The Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is No.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

