This document describes the Type GCZ-111 Chinese Amphibious Armored Engineer Vehicle.

The main roles of the  Type GCZ-111 Chinese Amphibious Armored Engineer Vehicle are to conduct maneuvers accompanying amphibious armored mechanized troops in combat operations, clear obstacles at beachheads and in front of positions to provide assault landing support for amphibious combat vehicles, and construct an entrance-exit road of disembarkation docks to provide rapid disembarkation and landing support for follow-up echelons formations.

The AEV is mainly composed of amphibious armored chassis, obstacle-clearing dozer blade, and multi-purpose excavation equipment.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is System information for the Type GCZ-111 Chinese Amphibious Armored Engineer Vehicle:
The Alternative Designation is GCZ-111.
The Type is Amphibious Armored Engineer Vehicle.
The Manufacturer is NORINCO - China North Industries Group Corporation - CNGC.
The Roles is The main roles of the Type GCZ111 amphibious engineer vehicle (AEV) are to conduct maneuvers accompanying amphibious armored mechanized troops in combat operations, clear obstacles at beachheads and in front of positions to provide assault landing support for amphibious combat vehicles, and construct an entrance-exit road of disembarkation docks to provide rapid disembarkation and landing support for follow-up echelons formations..
The Chassis is Type 77 (WZ511) Chinese Amphibious Armored Personnel Carrier (APC).
The Crew is 2.
The Dozer Blade is 1 x hydraulically-operated dozer in a V-blade configuration.
The Excavation Crane is Yes, with a 16 ton telescopic excavator.

Here is Dimensions information for the Type GCZ-111 Chinese Amphibious Armored Engineer Vehicle:
The Length is 7.40.
The Width is 3.20.
The Height is 2.44.
The Track Width is 400 mm.
The Length of Track on Ground is 4.44 m.
The Weight is 25,000 kg.
The Ground Clearance is 0.40 m.

Here is Automotive information for the Type GCZ-111 Chinese Amphibious Armored Engineer Vehicle:
The Engine Name is Model 12150L-2A.
The Engine Type is Water-cooled, 4-cycle, direct-injection diesel engine.
The Engine Power is 400 hp at 2,000 rpm.
The Cruising Range is 370.
The Range, Swimming is 120.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 50 kph.
The Amphibious is Propulsion once in the water being provided by twin waterjets located at the rear.
The Speed Maximum Swim is 8.
The Fording Depth is Amphibious.
The Gradient is 60.
The Side Slope is 40.
The Vertical Obstacle is 0.87.
The Trench Obstacle is 2.90.

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Type GCZ-111 Chinese Amphibious Armored Engineer Vehicle:
The Note is There are no crew-served weapons mounted on the Type GCZ-111 Chinese Amphibious Armored Engineer Vehicle.

Here is Protection information for the Type GCZ-111 Chinese Amphibious Armored Engineer Vehicle:
The Hull Armor is 6-10 mm.
The Turret Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is INA.
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is No.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

