This document describes the Supacat British 6x6 Amphibious All-Terrain Vehicle.

The Supacat is amphibious and has a low ground pressure, enabling it to traverse rough terrain whilst carrying up to eight troops (and two crew), a standard NATO pallet, or other stores (ammunition, etc.).

A GPMG may also be fitted to create an effective mobile fire support platform.

It has a permanent six-wheel drive (6x6) with the front four wheels (two axles) steered conventionally by using a rotating handlebar arrangement. These handlebars also operate the steering brakes, which act independently on each side of the vehicle giving brake steering.

The Supacat is built around a steel rectangular hollow section chassis frame, which forms the entire shape of the vehicle and to which all components and attachments are fitted. The 'body' of the Supacat forms a hull that enables the vehicle to float and protects the majority of mechanical components.

The vehicle can be configured for a number of roles:

*Basic ATMP
*FLPT (Fork Lift Pallet Trailer) to lift, handle and carry pallets up to 1.6 tonnes.
*SLLPT (Self Loading Lightweight Pallet Trailer)
*'Fuel Cat', which is able to carry and pump up to 1000 liters of aviation fuel. It also carries an engine start 
   system for aircraft and is able to tow an APFC (Air Portable Fuel Container).
*Mounted crane
*Aircraft crash recovery
*Radio rebroadcast stations
*Casualty evacuation
*The Supacats were initially taken into service by the United Kingdom in 1988 and have been heavily used in active service.

A modified Supacat 6X6 MK III was used in the movie Brazil.

Supacat re-branded to SC Group in September 2015, the Supacat brand retained for the group's core defense business.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Australia, Denmark, New Zealand, Norway, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the Supacat British 6x6 Amphibious All-Terrain Vehicle:
The ATMP is INA.
The Mortar Carrier is INA.
The Howitzer Tow Vehicle is INA.
The Engineer Vehicle is INA.
The FLPT is INA.
The SLLPT is INA.
The Fuel Cat is INA.
The Mounted Crane is INA.
The Aircraft Crash Recovery Vehicle is INA.
The Radio Rebroadcast Stations is INA.
The Casualty Evacuation is INA.
The AGTM Launcher is INA.

Here is Dimensions information for the Supacat British 6x6 Amphibious All-Terrain Vehicle of the System:
The Height, Overall  is 1.9 m.
The Length, Chassis Overall  is 3.44 m (with winch).
The Width, Overall  is 2.0 m.
The Weight, Combat is 2,000.

Here is Automotive information for the Supacat British 6x6 Amphibious All-Terrain Vehicle:
The Engine Name is VW ADE.
The Engine Type is Turbo-charged diesel.
The Fording Depth  is Amphibious.
The Speed, Maximum Road  is 64.0.
The Range, Cruising  is INA.
The Speed , Average Cross-Country is INA.
The Speed , Maximum Off-Road is INA.
The Speed, Maximum Swim  is less than 5 km/h.

Here is Radio information for the Supacat British 6x6 Amphibious All-Terrain Vehicle of the Communications:
The Note is Vehicle/Man pack (to meet
customer's need).

Here is System information for the Supacat British 6x6 Amphibious All-Terrain Vehicle of the Main Weapon System:
The Name is INA.
The Type is General-Purpose Machine Gun.
The Caliber is 7.62.

Here is Protection information for the Supacat British 6x6 Amphibious All-Terrain Vehicle:
The Hull Armor is The vehicle is open & provides no protection to its occupants.
The Armor, Applique  is No.
The Armor, Explosive Reactive  is No.
The NBC Protection is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is No.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.
The Survivability Equipment is INA.

