This document describes the Kvitok 3IA Russian Radio Navigation Receiver.

The Kvitok 3IA receiver is a radio navigation device that is known to integrate with several legacy hyperbolic navigation system networks such as Loran-C, Chayka, BRAS, and MARS-75. 
This receiver is widely used on Russian sea-going vessels along the Arctic Northern Sea Route and the Baltic and Azov Sea/Black Sea areas.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is System information for the Kvitok 3IA Russian Radio Navigation Receiver:
The Name is Kvitok 3IA Russian Radio Navigation Receiver.
The Type is Navigation aide; single component for large area radio navigation.

Here is BRAS Network information for the Kvitok 3IA Russian Radio Navigation Receiver:
The Configuration is Network consists of a master and two slave stations aligned in a "chain." The master station transmits during slots 1 and 3 and the first slave during slot 2, and the second slave during slot 4..
The Operating Frequency is 1,660 to 2,115 kHz.
The Transmission Length is Each transmission is approximately 230 mS long, and is followed by a 40mS silence period before the transmission in the next time slot begins..
The Working Cycle is The working cycle of a chain is just over one second. The cycle is split into 4 periods of approximately 270 mS.

Here is MARS-75 Network information for the Kvitok 3IA Russian Radio Navigation Receiver:
The Configuration is Wide area network of navigation markers, light buoys, light beacons, radio beacons, radar reflectors, and radio beacon responders..
The Operating Frequency is 70 kHz.
The Transmission Length is INA.
The Working Cycle is INA.

Here is Chayka Network information for the Kvitok 3IA Russian Radio Navigation Receiver:
The Configuration is Hyperbolic positioning system using time-of-flight of narrow pulses. Stations are organized in chains, and each station may be identified by its Group Repetition Interval (GRI)..
The Operating Frequency is 100 kHz.
The Transmission Length is INA.
The Working Cycle is GRI varies.
The Note is Similarities to Loran-C system.

