This document describes the BM-1 Russian 107mm Single Launch Surface to Surface Rocket System.

HEZBOLLAH Proliferation. The BM-1 is a Russian made, Single Launch Rocket System and is a single man-portable, tripod-mounted, launcher tube for 107 mm rockets which is designed for use by commando, guerrilla or special forces units.
There is very little information available about this system however, photos and host nation news articles confirm their existence and use by guerrilla forces.
The Type 85 is a Chinese made, single, man-portable tripod-mounted launcher tube for use by special forces units.
The name “Katyusha” (Russian translation: “Little Katy”) was originally used by Soviet soldiers during World War II to refer to 82 mm and 132 mm rockets used by USSR forces. Today, however, reporters and analysts alike use the term for most of Hezbollah’s unguided artillery rockets fired from or designed for multiple rocket launchers (MRLs).
According to a 2006 report, Hezbollah was estimated to hold between 7,000-8,000 107 mm and 122 mm Katyusha rockets, although this number has increased since.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Iran (Islamic Republic of), Non-State Actors.

Here is Dimensions information for the BM-1 Russian 107mm Single Launch Surface to Surface Rocket System:
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Weight, Combat is 41.3.
The Weight, Empty is 22.5.

Here is Ammunition information for the BM-1 Russian 107mm Single Launch Surface to Surface Rocket System of the Launcher:
The Type is Fire and Forget Rocket.
The Caliber is 107.
The Muzzle Velocity is INA.
The Stabilization is Spin-Stabilized.
The Warhead Type is HE-Frag or Incendiary.
The Initiation is Electric.
The Fuse Type is Impact or Precision Delayed.
The Warhead Weight is Warhead is mated to the body.
The Effective Range is 8.5.
The Basic Load is NA.
The Armor Penetration is INA.
The Arming Mechanism is Spinning.
The Accuracy is Within 336m x 160m.

Here is Fire Control information for the BM-1 Russian 107mm Single Launch Surface to Surface Rocket System:
The Note: is INA, however appears to use direct lay or iron sights with range indicators.

