This document describes the Severny Polyus Class (Project 00903 Class) Russian Ice-Resistant Self-Propelled Platform (IRSPP).

The Severny Polyus Class (Project 00903 Class) Russian Ice-Resistant Self-Propelled Platform (IRSPP) is a The all-season scientific-research platform with onboard equipment that will be able to make geological, acoustic, geophysical, and oceanographic observations, move-in ice-covered waters without the assistance of icebreakers, provide a helipad for Mi-8 and Mi-38 helicopters and serve as a polar station offering comfortable and safe conditions of work and accommodation with an ambient temperature of up to 50 Celcius degree. The platform scientific center is equipped with a modern lab, and uninterrupted communication and is designed for the simultaneous work of 34 researchers.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is System information for the Severny Polyus Class (Project 00903 Class) Russian Ice-Resistant Self-Propelled Platform (IRSPP):
The Alternative Designation is Severny Polyus Class; Project 00903 Class.
The Type is Ice-Resistant Self-Propelled Platform (IRSPP).
The Builder is Admiralty Shipyards (part of the United Shipbuilding Corporation).
The Crew is 14.
The Scientist is 34.

Here is Dimensions information for the Severny Polyus Class (Project 00903 Class) Russian Ice-Resistant Self-Propelled Platform (IRSPP):
The Length is 83.1 m.
The Height is INA.
The Beam is 22.5 m.
The Draft is 8.6 m.
The Displacement, Standard is INA.
The Displacement, Full Load is over 10,000 tons.

Here is Propulsion System information for the Severny Polyus Class (Project 00903 Class) Russian Ice-Resistant Self-Propelled Platform (IRSPP):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is INA.
The Engine Power is 4,200 kW.
The Maximum Range is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 10 knots.

Here is Aviation Facilities information for the Severny Polyus Class (Project 00903 Class) Russian Ice-Resistant Self-Propelled Platform (IRSPP):
The Hellipad is Helipad for Mi-8 and Mi-38 helicopters.

Here is Protection information for the Severny Polyus Class (Project 00903 Class) Russian Ice-Resistant Self-Propelled Platform (IRSPP):
The Hull Armor is Hull Strength rated at Arc level 8.
The Countermeasures is No.
The NBC Water Washdown System is Yes.
The EW Intercept is No.

