This document describes the STK 50MG Singapore 12.7mm Heavy Machine Gun.

The STK 50 MG, formerly known as the CIS 50MG, is a gas-operated, air-cooled, belt-fed heavy machine gun developed and manufactured by Chartered Industries of Singapore (CIS, now ST Kinetics) in the late 1980s, in response to a request by the Singaporean Defence Ministry to replace the 12.7mm Browning M2HB machine guns then in ubiquitous service with the Singapore Armed Forces (SAF).

The aim was to have a brand new heavy machine gun design, that fires the same type of .50 cal rounds as the M2HB machine guns and to have the gun parts more readily available in view of easing SAF's chain of logistics and supplies.


The CIS engineers learnt from the lesson of the canceled (lack of funding) American "Dover Devil GPHMG" program known as the Special Projects Group at Picatinny Arsenal led by Charles J. Rhoades. Curt Johnson and Phil Baker developed the original concept to create a modular weapon suited for modern tactical doctrines and production techniques. In 1988, CIS introduced the new 12.7mm machine gun which was aptly named as the CIS 50MG, after two years of development and testing phase.

As the STK 50 MG is a gas-operated, air-cooled, belt-fed weapon, the gun is operated using dual gas pistons, located in two gas tubes placed on either side of the barrel. The barrel is locked by means of a rotary bolt with multiple radial lugs that engages the barrel extension, eliminating the need for headspace adjustments. The CIS 50MG utilises the same "constant recoil" system used in the Ultimax 100 and it also has a quick-detachable barrel equipped with a carrying handle to facilitate the ease of barrel changing under combat situations or during operational manoeuvres.

The one unique feature of the weapon is its dual belt-feed system, the system allows for fast and easy switching of ammunition from standard ball rounds to the Raufoss Mk 211 Armor-Piercing-Incendiary rounds or the Saboted light armor penetrator (SLAP), which are capable of penetrating a rolled homogeneous armour plate with a thickness of 25 mm (0.98 in) from a range of 1 km (0.62 mi). Such systems are more commonly used in modern automatic cannons such as the M242 Bushmaster 25mm cannon and the Mk44 Bushmaster II 30mm cannon, both of which are also in use by the Singapore Army's Bionix AFVs.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Bangladesh, Indonesia, Malaysia, Myanmar, Nigeria, Singapore.

Here is Variants information for the STK 50MG Singapore 12.7mm Heavy Machine Gun:
The SRAMS is 120-mm Super Rapid Advanced Mortar System (SRAMS) with an auto-loader & 6 rounds on vehicle.
The Ammo Carrier is Accompanies the SRAMS with additional crew member.
The Spider with Spike ATGM is Anti-tank weapons carrier.
The Light Strike Vehicle Mark II is The primary role of the LSV MK. II is against armoured threats. It is designed to be helicopter portable and manoeuvrable over cross-country terrain. The vehicle is equipped with enhanced networking capabilities to support the integration with other combat systems during operations..

Here is System information for the STK 50MG Singapore 12.7mm Heavy Machine Gun of the System:
The Name is STK 50MG.
The Type is 12.7mm Heavy Machine Gun.
The In Service is 1991-Present.
The Manufacturer is • CIS: 1988–2000
• ST Kinetics: 2000–present.
The Length is 1,778.
The Barrel Length is 1,143.
The Width is 190.
The Weight is 30 kg (66.14 lb) (complete gun assembly w/o feed chute and tripod adaptor).
The Action is Gas-operated, rotating bolt.
The Caliber is 12.7mm.
The Barrels is Single barrel (progressive RH parabolic twist, 8 grooves).
The Maximum Firing Range is INA.
The Rate of Fire is 400–600 rounds/min.
The Muzzle Velocity is 890.
The Feed System is Single sprocket Belt-fed with dual-feed chutes.
The Sights is Folding leaf sight.

Here is Ammunition information for the STK 50MG Singapore 12.7mm Heavy Machine Gun of the System:
The Type is Rifle.
The Caliber is 12.7.
The Cartridge is 12.7×99mm NATO.

