This document describes the SA-321 Super Frelon (Super Hornet) French Multi-Role Helicopter.

The Aérospatiale (formerly Sud Aviation) SA 321 Super Frelon ("Super Hornet") is a three-engined heavy transport helicopter produced by aerospace manufacturer Sud Aviation (later Aérospatiale) of France. It held the distinction of being the most powerful helicopter to be built in Europe at one point, as well as being the world's fastest helicopter.

The Super Frelon was a more powerful development of the original SE.3200 Frelon, which had failed to enter production. On 7 December 1962, the first prototype conducted the type's maiden flight. On 23 July 1963, a modified Super Frelon flew a record-breaking flight, setting the new FAI absolute helicopter world speed record with a recorded speed of 217.7 mph (350.4 km/h). Both civilian and military versions of the Super Frelon were produced; the type was predominantly sold to military customers. In 1981, Aerospatiale, Sud Aviation's successor company, chose to terminate production due to a lack of orders.

The Super Frelon was most heavily used by naval air arms, such as the French Navy and the People's Liberation Army Naval Air Force. On 30 April 2010, the type was retired by the French Navy, having been replaced by a pair of Eurocopter EC225 helicopters as a stopgap measure pending the availability of the NHIndustries NH90 helicopter. The Super Frelon was in use for an extended period within China, where it was manufactured under license and sold by the Harbin Aircraft Industry Group as the Harbin Z-8. A modernised derivative of the Z-8, marketed as the Avicopter AC313, performed its first flight on 18 March 2010.

The Aérospatiale SA 321 Super Frelon is a large, heavy-lift single-rotor helicopter, furnished with a relatively atypical three-engine configuration; these are Turboméca Turmo IIIC turboshaft engines set on top of the fuselage, a pair of turbines positioned side by side at the front and one located aft of the main rotor. The naval anti-submarine and anti-ship variants are usually equipped with navigation and search radar (ORB-42), and a 50-metre rescue cable. They are most often fitted with a 20 mm cannon, countermeasures, night vision, a laser designator and a Personal Locator System. The Super Frelon can also be fitted for inflight refueling.

The front engines have simple individual ram intakes, while the rear one is fitted with a semi-circular scoop to provide air; all three bifurcated exhausts are near to the rotor head. The three engines and the reduction gearbox are mounted on a horizontal bulkhead and firewall which forms the roof of the cabin and upper structural member of the fuselage. The engines are isolated by multiple firewalls, including transverse firewalls separating front and rear engines from the rotor gearbox, and zonal engine firewalls. Eight sturdy hinged doors provide access to the compact Turmo engines, which have ample space around them to enable ground crew to service them without using external platforms.

The fuselage is actually a hull, which makes use of a semi-monocoque light alloy construction; according to aerospace publication Flight International, the hull design was "reminiscent of flying-boat engineering". The main cabin lacks any transverse bracing, except for a single bulkhead between the cockpit and cabin. Substantial built-up frames connect the strengthened roof structure with the floor/planing-bottom of transverse under-floor bulkheads and outer skin. A conventional exterior skin is used, employing longitudinal stiffeners as well as two lines of deep channel members, while the under-floor cross members are reinforced with vertical stiffeners. There is no keel, at the floor level there are horizontal members between frames which are stiffened by transverse shear angles. Flexible fuel cells are stored in four watertight under-floor compartments lying fore and aft of the rotor axis, while the floor itself is fitted with removable panels. A hatch set into the floor, positioned approximately underneath the rotor axis, is used for sling-load operations.

At the rear of the cabin is a tapered section of simple semi-monocoque construction, which is closed by a robust hinged rear loading ramp, which serves as the main entrance for bulky loads or equipment. The loading ramp is jettisonable in emergency situations. Additionally, there is a sliding door located on the forward starboard side, while a small hinged emergency door is set on the aft port side. The tail boom uses conventional semi-monocoque construction, supported by closely spaced notched channel-section frames and continuous stringers, absent of any major longitudinal sections or longerons. The cranked section carrying the tail rotor and trim plane is more robust, strengthened by a solid-web spar, frames, and stiffeners. The juncture of the main boom and cranked section is hinged in order to reduce the rotorcraft's folded length to 58 ft. Along the top of the boom, the shaft for the tail rotor is covered by a fairing.

The fixed landing gear has twin wheels on each of the three vertical shock absorber-equipped struts. The main leading gear units are mounted on triangulated tubular structures, while the nose gear is bracketed to the cockpit bulkhead via a watertight seal in the planing bottom. The main wheels have hydraulic brakes operated from the pedals, complete with a parking hand brake, while the nose unit is fully castoring. The nose, which is covered by large glazed panels, has a bow chine and planing bottom built as a unit with the flight deck, which is higher than the main cabin floor

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China, France, Greece, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Iraq, Israel, Libya, South Africa.

Here is Variants information for the SA-321 Super Frelon (Super Hornet) French Multi-Role Helicopter:
The SA 321G is Anti-submarine warfare version for the French Navy, it was powered by three Turbomeca IIIC-6 turboshaft engines; 26 built..
The SA 321Ga is Utility and assault transport helicopter for the French Navy..
The SA 321GM is Export version for Libya, fitted with Omera ORB-32WAS radar..
The SA 321H is Export version for Iraq, it was powered by three Turbomeca Turmo IIIE turboshaft engines, fitted with Omera ORB-31D search radar, and armed with Exocet anti-ship missiles..
The SA 321F is Commercial airline helicopter, powered by three Turbomeca IIIC-3 turboshaft engines, with accommodation for 34 to 37 passengers..
The SA 321J is Commercial transport helicopter and accommodation for 27 passengers..
The SA 321Ja is Improved version of the SA 321J..
The SA 321K is Military transport version for Israel..
The SA 321L is Military transport version for South Africa, fitted with air inlet filters..
The SA 321M is Search and rescue, utility transport helicopter for Libya..
The Changhe Z-8 is Chinese built version with three Changzhou Lan Xiang WZ6 turboshaft engines..
The Changhe Z-8A is Army transport..
The Changhe Z-8F is Chinese built version with Pratt & Whitney Canada PT6B-67A turboshaft engines..
The Changhe Z-8AEW is Chinese AEW helicopter with retractable radar antenna, AESA radar, 360 degree coverage, redesigned nose similar to the AC313, and FLIR..
The Changhe Z-8L is Chinese variant with enlarged fuel sponsons, first spotted in January 2019.

Here is System information for the SA-321 Super Frelon (Super Hornet) French Multi-Role Helicopter:
The Alternative Designation is SA 321 Super Frelon; Super Hornet.
The Capabilities is Anti-Submarine Warfare; Anti-ship; Commercial Market; Search and Rescue; Reconnaissance; Special Forces.
The Type is Chinese Multi-Role Helicopter.
The Manufacturer is Sud Aviation
Aérospatiale.
The In Service is 1966-Present.
The Crew is 3.
The Passenger Capacity is It can accommodate 27 fully armed troops or 15 medical stretchers..
The Blades, Main Rotor is 6.
The Blades, Tail Rotor is 5.
The Number of Engines is 3.
The Day/Night Capable is Yes.
The All Weather Capable is Yes.
The Hoist and Basket for SAR is Available.
The Hoist and Winch is Available, 275kg hoist and winch.
The Number of Hard Points is 2.

Here is Dimensions information for the SA-321 Super Frelon (Super Hornet) French Multi-Role Helicopter:
The Fuselage Length is 20.27.
The Fuselage Width (with pontoon) is 5.2.
The Width of Cargo bay (at the floor) is 1.90.
The Height of Cargo Bay is 1.83.
The Weight,Empty is 6,865.
The Weight, MTOW is 13,000.
The Main Rotor Diameter is 18.9.
The Tail Rotor Diameter is 4.
The Whole Cabin Volume is 28.9m3.
The Main Rotor Disc is 280.48m2.
The Tail Rotor Disc is 12.57m2.
The Maximum Payload Capacity is 4,000kg.
The Maximum Payload Capacity with Sling Loads is 5,000kg.

Here is Automotive information for the SA-321 Super Frelon (Super Hornet) French Multi-Role Helicopter:
The Engine Name is 3 x Turbomeca Turmu IIIC Turboshaft Engines.
The Number of Engines is 3.
The Engine Type is Turboshaft.
The Engine Power is 1,570 hr each engine.
The Maximum Range is 1,020.
The Speed, Maximum is 275.
The Ceiling is 3,150.
The Rate of Climb is 401 meters per min.
The Vertical Climb Rate is 6.66 m/s.
The Main Rotor Blade is Six-Bladed.
The Tail Rotor Blade is Five-Bladed.
The Fuel Capacity is 3,900 liters.
The Fuel Capacity, Internal Aux is 1,900 liters.
The Endurance is 4 hours.
The Landing Gear is non-retractable tricycle type landing gear comprising two wheels and low air pressure shock absorbers..

Here is Communications information for the SA-321 Super Frelon (Super Hornet) French Multi-Role Helicopter:
The Radio is INA.

Here is Missile System (Option 1) information for the SA-321 Super Frelon (Super Hornet) French Multi-Role Helicopter of the Wing Mounted Weapons:
The Name is YJ-8 (CSS-N-4 Sardine).
The Type is Surface-launched subsonic anti-ship cruise missile..
The Manufactuer is China Aerospace Science and Industry Corporation.
The In Service is 1980s-Present.
The Length is 5.81.
The Width is INA.
The Weight is 815.
The Warhead Type is High-explosive fragmentation.
The Warhead Weight is 165.
The Engine is Rocket.
The Propellant is Solid Rocket.
The Operational Range is 42.
The Flight Altitude is 5-7.
The Speed is Mach 0.9.
The Guidance System is Inertial navigation/active radar homing terminal guidance.
The Basic Load is 2.

Here is Missile System (Option 2) information for the SA-321 Super Frelon (Super Hornet) French Multi-Role Helicopter of the Wing Mounted Weapons:
The Name is YJ-83 (CSS-N-8 Saccade).
The Type is Subsonic anti-ship cruise missile.
The Manufacturer is China Aerospace Science and Industry Corporation.
The In Service is 1998-Present.
The Length is INA.
The Diameter is INA.
The Warhead Type is High-explosive fragmentation.
The Warhead Weight is 190.
The Operational Range is 180.
The Speed is Mach 0.9.
The Guidance System is Inertial navigation/active radar homing terminal guidance.
The Basic Load is 2.

Here is Torpedo information for the SA-321 Super Frelon (Super Hornet) French Multi-Role Helicopter of the Wing Mounted Weapons:
The Name is A244S Torpedo.
The Type is Fire and Forget Torpedo.
The Length is 2.75.
The Diameter is 324.
The Muzzle Velocity is INA.
The Effective Firing Range is 13.5.
The Maximum Firing Range is 6 km for Mod. 1, 13.5 km for Mod. 3.
The Filling is high explosive STANAG 4439 and MURAT-2 compliant.
The Detonation Mechanism is Various.
The Note is The Torpedo can be launched from surface vessels or from aircraft, and locates the target by means of an acoustic seeker..

Here is Fire Control information for the SA-321 Super Frelon (Super Hornet) French Multi-Role Helicopter:
The Fire Control System Type is INA.
The Fire Control Radar is Bar-shape Array.
The Digital or Analog Cockpit is INA.
The Direct Fire Control is INA.
The Laser Designator is INA.
The Sensor Suite(s) Available is Yes.
The Position Location System is Yes.
The ASW Radar is Yes.
The Dipping Sonar is Yes, HS-12 dipping sonar.
The FLIR is Yes.
The Searchlight is Yes.
The Sonobuoys is Available.
The Note is The Helicopter can carry anti-submarine and Anti-ship torpedoes externally.

Here is Protection information for the SA-321 Super Frelon (Super Hornet) French Multi-Role Helicopter:
The Fuselage is INA.
The Cockpit Glass is Ballistic.
The Stealth Properties is No.
The Add on Armor is INA.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The EW is INA.
The EW Counter Measures/CCM is INA.
The Counter Measures (Chaff/Flares) is Yes.

