This document describes the Shrek Ukrainian 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP).

The Shrek Ukrainian 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) is the base variant of the family. The vehicle primarily functions as troop or logistics transport, but its cabin can be modified to perform as an ambulance. The vehicle is built largely to consumer-defined specifications.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Ukraine.

Here is Variants information for the Shrek Ukrainian 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Shrek RCV is 4x4 EOD. Designed for mine clearance..
The Fiona is 6x6 APC/Ambulance..

Here is System information for the Shrek Ukrainian 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Alternative Designation is Shrek.
The Type is Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP).
The Manufacturer is AutokrAZ.
The Configuration is 4x4.
The Crew is 2.
The Passenger Capacity is 10.
The Payload Capacity is 2,000 kg.

Here is Dimensions information for the Shrek Ukrainian 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Length is 8.0 m.
The Width is 2.6 m.
The Height is 3.15 m.
The Weight, Combat is 18,000 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Shrek Ukrainian 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Engine Name is YaMZ-238D.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 330.
The Power-to-Weight Ratio is 23 hp/t.
The Maximum Range is 1,200 km.
The Maximum Speed is 100 km/h.
The Amphibious is No.
The Gradient is 60%.
The Side Slope is 30%.
The Vertical Obstacle is 0.5 m.
The Trench is 0.5 m.
The Fording is 1.5 m.
The Turing Radius is 13 m.

Here is Communications information for the Shrek Ukrainian 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Note is HF and VHF radio systems may be added for the driver and commander..

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Shrek Ukrainian 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Note is A protected weapon station (PWS) can be installed on top of the vehicle, which can also function as an escape hatch. In its base APC configuration, gun ports can be installed either through the windows or underneath each window. The number of windows and gun ports are dependent on customer requests..

Here is Protection information for the Shrek Ukrainian 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Hull Armor is The armor of the vehicle is provided up to ballistic protection STANAG 4569 Level 2 and mine protection up to STANAG 4569 Level 2a or 2b. The V-shaped hull helps to minimize the effects of a blast by reducing the vehicle?s projected area and its drag coefficient..
The Applique Armor is Available.
The Mine Clearing is No, but the Shrek RCV variant is designed for mine clearance..
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

