This document describes the Hwasong-10 (Musudan) North Korean Intermediate-Range Ballistic Missile.

The Hwasong-10), also known by the names BM-25 and Musudan (Korean: 무수단; Hanja: 舞水端), is a mobile intermediate-range ballistic missile developed by North Korea. Hwasong-10 was first revealed to the international community in a military parade on 10 October 2010 celebrating the Korean Worker's Party's 65th anniversary, although experts believe these were mock-ups of the missile.Hwasong-10 resembles the shape of the Soviet Union's R-27 Zyb submarine-launched missile, but is slightly longer. It is based on the R-27, which uses a 4D10 engine propelled by unsymmetrical dimethylhydrazine (UDMH) and nitrogen tetroxide (NTO). These propellants are much more advanced than the kerosene compounds used in North Korea's Scuds and Nodong missiles.

Since April 2016 the Hwasong-10 has been tested a number of times, with two apparent partial successes and a number of failures. The Hwasong-10 was not shown in the April 2017 and February 2018 military parades, suggesting that the design had not been deployed.

Assuming a range of 3200 km, the Musudan could hit any target in East Asia (including US military bases in Guam and Okinawa). Inventory is less than 50 launchers.

In the mid-1990s, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, North Korea invited the Makeyev Design Bureau's ballistic missile designers and engineers to develop this missile, based on the R-27 Zyb. In 1992, a large contract between Korea Yon’gwang Trading Company and Makeyev Rocket Design Bureau of Miass, Russia was signed. The agreement stated that Russian engineers would go to the DPRK and assist in the development of the Zyb Space Launch Vehicle (SLV).

It was decided that, as the Korean People's Army's MAZ-547A/MAZ-7916 Transporter erector launcher could carry 20 tonnes, and the R-27 Zyb was only 14.2 tonnes, the R-27 Zyb's fuel/oxidizer tank could be extended by approximately 2 metres. Additionally, the warhead was reduced from a three-warhead MIRV to a single warhead.

The actual rocket design is a liquid fuel rocket, generally believed to use a hypergolic combination of unsymmetrical dimethylhydrazine (UDMH) as fuel, and nitrogen tetroxide (NTO) as oxidizer.[4] Once the fuel/oxidizer combination are fed into the missile, it could maintain a 'ready to launch' condition for several days, or even weeks, like the R-27 SLBM, in moderate ambient temperatures. A fueled Hwasong-10 would not have the structural strength to be safely land transported, so would have to be fueled at the launch site.

It was originally believed that the rocket motors of Hwasong-10 is made up the second stage of the Taepodong-2, which North Korea unsuccessfully test fired in 2006. However analysis of the Unha-3 launch, believed to be based on the Taepodong-2, showed that the second stage did not use the same fuel as the R-27, and is probably based on Nodong rocket technology.

Initially it was believed that there is a possibility that Hwasong-10 likewise is using the Nodong's kerosene and corrosion inhibited red fuming nitric acid (IRFNA) propellants, reducing the missile's range by about half.

However it is unlikely that North Korea uses IRFNA propellants which will reduce its range by about half, after the experts acknowledged that the June 22 twin test range could be at 3,150 km if the missile was not launched in the lofted trajectory.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea).

Here is System information for the Hwasong-10 (Musudan) North Korean Intermediate-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Alternate Designation is Hwasong-10; BM-25; Musudan.
The Type is Intermediate-Range Ballistic Missile.
The Launch Platform(s) is Transporter Erector Launcher (TEL): MAZ-547).
The Basing is Road-Mobile.
The Crew is 3.
The Missile Engine Name is Soviet 4D10 engine and uses liquid propellant..
The Type of Engine is Single-stage.
The Warhead Type is Nuclear, single warhead with a blast yield of up to 1 MT.
The Range of Fire is 2,500-4,000 km.
The CEP is INA.
The Note #1 is The Hwasong 10 is based on a Soviet R-27 submarine-launched ballistic missile, but is slightly longer. Its development was assisted by Russians. In 1992, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, North Korea signed a contract with a Russian Makeyev Design Bureau to develop a space launch vehicle, based on the R-27 missile. Russian ballistic missile designers and engineers went to North Korea to develop this missile..
The Note #2 is The TEL vehicle can launch its missile from prepared sites or from unprepared positions during field deployment. Once the missile is launched, the TEL vehicle can be reloaded with another missile. Reloading is performed by a crane..

Here is Dimensions information for the Hwasong-10 (Musudan) North Korean Intermediate-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Missile Length is 12.
The Missile Diameter is 1.5.
The Missile Launch Weight is 20 tons.
The Throw Weight is 650 kg.
The Warhead Weight is The missile carries a singe warhead, which weights around 650 kg. Though other sources suggest that the warhead could weight 1 000-1 250 kg..

Here is Automotive (Transporter Erector Launcher: MAZ-547) information for the Hwasong-10 (Musudan) North Korean Intermediate-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is V12 Diesel.
The Engine Power is 525.
The Maximum Speed is 60 km/h.
The Maximum Range is INA.
The Fuel Capacity is INA.

Here is Protection information for the Hwasong-10 (Musudan) North Korean Intermediate-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is No.
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is No.
The NBC Equipment is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

