This document describes the Hulk Ukrainian 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP).

The Hulk Ukrainian 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) is based on the KrAZ-5233 off-road truck chassis.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Ukraine.

Here is System information for the Hulk Ukrainian 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Alternative Designation is Hulk.
The Type is Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP).
The Manufacturer is AutoKrAZ.
The Configuration is 4x4.
The Crew is 2.
The Passengers is 10.
The Payload Capacity is 2,000 kg.

Here is Dimensions information for the Hulk Ukrainian 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Length is 6.2 m.
The Width is 2.6 m.
The Height is 2.8 m.
The Weight, Combat is 16,000 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Hulk Ukrainian 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 330 hp.
The Maximum Range is 1,200 km.
The Maximum Speed is 100 km/h.
The Amphibious is No.
The Gradient is 58%.
The Side Slope is 20%.
The Vertical Obstacle is 0.5 m.
The Turning Radius is 13 m.

Here is Communications information for the Hulk Ukrainian 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Note is HF and VHF radio systems may be added for the driver and commander..

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Hulk Ukrainian 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Note is In its base configuration, a protected weapon station (PWS) is available on the top of the hull. The turret also functions as an escape roof hatch. The four windows on either side of the crew compartments can be fitted with firing ports..

Here is Protection information for the Hulk Ukrainian 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Hull Armor is The armour of the vehicle is provided up to ballistic protection STANAG 4569 Level 2 and mine protection up to STANAG 4569 Level 2a or 2b..
The Applique Armor is Available.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is No.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

