This document describes the Milkor Mk-4 UBGL South African 40mm Grenade Launcher.

The Milkor 40mm UBGL grenade launcher is a lightweight single-shot, underslung grenade launcher designed and developed in South Africa by Milkor (Pty) Ltd. It can be attached to most modern assault weapons and rifles using a Picatinny rail system. The UBGL is capable of firing standard 40mm rounds including illumination and observation rounds (max length of 140 mm). Clip-on, clip-off mechanism allows the UBGL to be fitted, with an additional recoil buffer, to any weapon fitted with a Picatinny rail.

The UBGL is fitted with a steel barrel with constant-pitch rifling and swings to the side for loading and unloading of standard low-velocity 40mm cartridges. This enables the user to have a 40mm grenade launcher capability together with an assault rifle. The UBGL can also be fired independently from a rifle (handheld) in an emergency. It can also be fitted to rifles and shotguns used in policing and is able to fire less lethal and lethal ammunition.

The US-Mk 4 has a mass of 1.68 kg (empty), while the new US-Mk 4S weighs 0.750 kg with an aluminum barrel or around 1 kg with a steel barrel. A “push-button” trigger mechanism is used in place of an actual trigger in order to differentiate between the firing mechanisms of the rifle and the under-barrel as the soldier might invariably, under duress, tend to pull the incorrect trigger if presented with two triggers. The opening mechanism swings to the side in order to enable the user to load ammunition without external interference of the weapon it is mounted to or other complications.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Southern Africa.

Here is Variants information for the Milkor Mk-4 UBGL South African 40mm Grenade Launcher:
The US-Mk 4 - Milkor 40mm UBGL Mk-4 is INA.
The US-Mk 4S - Milkor 40mm UBGL Mk-4S is INA.

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Milkor Mk-4 UBGL South African 40mm Grenade Launcher:
The Alternate Designation is Milkor Mk-4 UBGL.
The Type is Grenade Launcher.
The Caliber is 40 mm.
The Manufacturer is Milkor (Pty) Ltd.
The Caliber is 40.
The Length is 240.
The Barrel Length is INA.
The Width is 60.
The Height is 90.
The Weight, Without Sight is 0.95.
The Action is Single Shot; Reausable.
The Rate of Fire is 6.
The Maximum Effective Range is 250.
The Minimum Effective Range is 30.
The Muzzle Velocity is INA.
The Loading Type is The UBGL is fitted with a steel barrel with constant-pitch rifling and swings to the side for loading and unloading of standard low-velocity 40mm cartridges..
The Trigger Mechansim is A “push-button” trigger mechanism is used in place of an actual trigger in order to differentiate between firing mechanisms of the rifle and the under barrel as the soldier might invariably, under duress, tend to pull the incorrect trigger if presented with two triggers..

Here is Ammunition (Option 2) information for the Milkor Mk-4 UBGL South African 40mm Grenade Launcher of the Ammunition (Option 1):
The Name is M430I.
The Type is High Explosive Dual Purpose(HEDP).
The Caliber is 40.
The Maximum Effective Firing Range is 200-250.
The Muzzle Velocity is INA.

Here is Ammunition (Option 3) information for the Milkor Mk-4 UBGL South African 40mm Grenade Launcher of the Ammunition (Option 1):
The Name is M1001.
The Type is High Velocity Canister Cartridge (HVCC).
The Caliber is 40.
The Maximum Effective Firing Range is 200.
The Muzzle Velocity is INA.

Here is Sight #1 information for the Milkor Mk-4 UBGL South African 40mm Grenade Launcher of the Sights:
The Name is Ladder Sight.
The Weight is 155.

Here is Sight #2 information for the Milkor Mk-4 UBGL South African 40mm Grenade Launcher of the Sights:
The Name is Saddle Sight.
The Weight is 85.

Here is Sight #3 information for the Milkor Mk-4 UBGL South African 40mm Grenade Launcher of the Sights:
The Name is Reflex Sight.
The Weight is 210.

