This document describes the BMPT-72 Terminator 2 Russian Tank Support Armored Fighting Vehicle.

Boyevaya Mashina Podderzhki Tankov-72 (BMPT-72), also known as Terminator 2, is a new version of the BMPT tank support combat vehicle developed by UralVagonZavod Corporation, Russia.

The BMPT-72 was launched at the Russian Arms Expo (RAE) exhibition in Nizhny Tagil, Russia, in September 2013.

The new vehicle, fitted with guided weapon system, is capable of destroying infantry vehicles, enemy tanks and other armoured objects. The multipurpose tank support combat vehicle BMPT-72 is built on the chassis of T-72 battle tank.

The BMPT-72 can survive in different climatic zones, including urban areas, and in any light conditions.

The new variant follows the earlier BMPT tank support combat vehicle developed by Uralvagonzavod and Ural Transport Machine Building Design Bureau.

The crew size of the BMPT-72 has been reduced to three, by removing two grenade launching positions aboard the BMPT. The driver sits in the centre of the forward hull, while the gunner and commander positions are at the rear.

The new vehicle offers improved gun power, protection and command and control system over the BMPT. The combat weight is also reduced from 47t to 44t. The length and width of the vehicle are 7.2m and 3.59m respectively.

The BMPT-72 infantry fire support vehicle is armed with two 30mm 2A42 automatic cannons that can load ammunition of 850 rounds, four laser-guided Ataka-T anti-tank missile systems and one PKTM coaxial machine gun with remote reloading mechanism.

The tank features sighting and thermal channels, a laser range finder, integrated laser control channel for missile guidance and independent stabilisation of field of vision in azimuth and elevation planes, to enable the multispectral gunner’s sight.

The commander is provided with panoramic sight and the gunner’s position is fitted with day periscopes. The sighting channel allows the gunner and commander to detect targets at 5,000m distance during day time.

The BMPT-72 is provided with an increased fire control system for terrain observation and target location in all weather and any light conditions.

The vehicle is equipped with a ballistic computer with a set of weather and topographical sending units.

The vehicle also includes a two-axis stabilised weapon unit with electromechanical traversing and elevating drives.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Algeria, Russian Federation.

Here is Variants information for the BMPT-72 Terminator 2 Russian Tank Support Armored Fighting Vehicle:
The BMPT "Terminator" is The BMPT "Terminator" (Tank Support Fighting Vehicle)[2] is an armored fighting vehicle (AFV), designed and manufactured by the Russian company Uralvagonzavod. This vehicle was designed for supporting tanks and other AFVs in urban areas. The BMPT is unofficially named the "Terminator" by the manufacturers. It is heavily armed and armored to survive in urban combat. This AFV is armed with Ataka-T Guided Weapon System armed with four 9M120 Ataka missile launchers, two 30 mm 2A42 autocannons, two AG-17D grenade launchers, and one coaxial 7.62 mm PKTM machine gun..
The BMPT-72 Terminator 3 is BMPT-72 Terminator 3 will be based on Armata Universal Combat Platform and have an automatic gun turret and in the future may have integrated air defense systems and may be fully unmanned..

Here is System information for the BMPT-72 Terminator 2 Russian Tank Support Armored Fighting Vehicle:
The Alternative Designation is BMPT-72 (Terminator 2).
The Type is Tank Support Armoured Fighting Vehicle.
The Manufacturer is UralVagonZavod Corporation.
The Crew is Three (commander, gunner, driver).
The Chassis is The multipurpose tank support combat vehicle BMPT-72 is built on the chassis of T-72 battle tank..

Here is Dimensions information for the BMPT-72 Terminator 2 Russian Tank Support Armored Fighting Vehicle:
The Length is 7.2 m.
The Width is 3.59 m.
The Height is INA.
The Weight, Combat is 44 tons.
The Ground Pressure is INA.

Here is Automotive information for the BMPT-72 Terminator 2 Russian Tank Support Armored Fighting Vehicle:
The Engine Name is The BMPT-72 (Terminator 2) can be motorized with two types of engine, the original 850 hp B84MC or the new 1000 hp..
The Engine Type is B92C2 power plants, both are 12 cylinder V type multi fuel, liquid cooled Diesel engines. The B92C2 is a turbo supercharger which offers higher power and efficiency..
The Engine Power is 800-1,000.
The Transmission is hydraulically assisted transmission with 7 forward and 1 reverse gears..
The Range is 500.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 60.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.
The Suspension is The torsion bar suspension each side consists of six roadwheels with the idler at the front, drive sprocket at the rear and three return rollers supporting the inside of the track only. Shock-absorbers are fitted at the first, second and sixth roadwheel stations. The upper part of the suspension is protected by armour plates at the front and slat armour at the rear.
The Vertical Step is 850 mm.
The Trench is 2.8 m.
The Fording Depth is fording depth of 1.2m without preparation (1.8 m after 15 min of preparation)..
The Note is The BMPT-72 uses also an auxiliary power unit to extend mission endurance and running all systems on silent watch..

Here is System information for the BMPT-72 Terminator 2 Russian Tank Support Armored Fighting Vehicle of the Main Gun:
The Name is Shipunov 2A42.
The Type is Autocannon.
The Caliber is 30 mm.
The Length is 3.027 m.
The Barrel Length is 2,416 mm.
The Weight is 115 kg.
The Barrels is 1.
The Action is Gas-operated.
The Rate of Fire is 200 to 300 rds/min (low)
550-800 rds/min (high).
The Muzzle Velocity is 960 metres per second.
The Maximum Firing Range is 4,000 metres (4,400 yd) (HEI).
The Effective Firing Range is 2,000 metres (2,200 yd) (AP-T).
The Feed System is Twin Feed.

Here is Ammunition information for the BMPT-72 Terminator 2 Russian Tank Support Armored Fighting Vehicle of the Main Gun:
The Type is Rifle.
The Caliber is 30.
The Cartridge is 30 × 165mm.
The Basic Load is 850 Rounds.
The Note is The guns can fire a wide range of ammunitions as APERS-T (Anti-Personnel ammunitions), HEF-I (High-explosive Fragmentation Incendiary), AP-T (Armour Piercing)., and KE (Kinetic Energy)..

Here is System information for the BMPT-72 Terminator 2 Russian Tank Support Armored Fighting Vehicle of the Coaxial Weapon System:
The Name is PKMT.
The Type is General-Purpose Machine Gun.
The Caliber is 7.62.
The Length is 1,192 mm.
The Barrel Length is 605 mm.
The Weight is 10.5 kg.
The Action is Gas-operated, open bolt.
The Rate of Fire is 700–800 rounds/min.
The Muzzle Velocity is 825 m/s.
The Maximum Firing Range is 4,000 m.
The Effective Firing Range is 1,500 m.
The Feed System is Non-disintegrating metal 50 round belts in 100 and 200/250 round ammunition boxes.
The Sights is Tangent iron sights (default);
Optical, Night-vision, Thermal and Radar sights.

Here is Ammunition information for the BMPT-72 Terminator 2 Russian Tank Support Armored Fighting Vehicle of the Coaxial Weapon System:
The Type is Rifle.
The Caliber is 7.62.
The Cartridge is 7.62×54mmR.
The Basic Load is 2,100 Rounds.

Here is System information for the BMPT-72 Terminator 2 Russian Tank Support Armored Fighting Vehicle of the Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM) System:
The Name is Ataka-T Launcher.
The Type is Anti-Tank Guided Missile Launcher.
The Quantity is 2 x Ataka-T launchers.
The Location is Two anti-tank guided missile Ataka-T launcher units are mounted to each side of the turret..

Here is Ammunition information for the BMPT-72 Terminator 2 Russian Tank Support Armored Fighting Vehicle of the Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM) System:
The Name is 9M1201 Missile.
The Type is Anti-Tank Guided Missile.
The Length is INA.
The Diameter is INA.
The Weight is INA.
The Warheads is The missile 9M1201 can be equipped with two types of warheads, hollow-charge and high-explosive concrete-piercing..
The Basic Load is 4 x 9M1201 Missile.
The Maximum Range is 6,000 m.

Here is Fire Control information for the BMPT-72 Terminator 2 Russian Tank Support Armored Fighting Vehicle:
The Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is Yes, Advanced automatic fire control system. The BMPT-72 or Terminator 2 is fitted with advanced automatic fire control system which can be used for terrain observation, target location and detection on the move at day and night.
The Day and Night Vision is Yes.
The Panoramic Sight is Yes.
The Main Gun Stabilization is INA.
The Thermal Camera is Yes.
The Laser Range Finder is Yes.
The Ballistic Computer is Yes.
The Note #1 is The commander and the gunner of the BMPT-72 are equipped with control panel and LCD screen. The gunner is equipped with multichannel device with sighting and thermal channels, laser range finder, GM laser control channel and independent FoV (Field of View) stabilized in azimuth and elevation. The commander panoramic sight is fitted with video and thermal channels, laser range finder and independent FoV stabilized in azimuth and elevation. Gunner and commander are able to detect a target at a distance of 5,000 m with sighting channel and 3,500 m with the thermal channel..
The Note #2 is The BMPT-72 can be fitted with a snorkel to cross a river with a depth of 5 m maximum..

Here is Protection information for the BMPT-72 Terminator 2 Russian Tank Support Armored Fighting Vehicle:
The Hull Armor is Basic steel armour, explosive reactive armour ERA at front and glacis, slat armour at the rear..
The Turret Armor is Compared with the BMPT predecessor, the BMPT-72 has an improved fire control system and better turret weapon station protection. The turret protection includes armored shields for the missiles, protecting the missiles from splinters and firing of small arms..
The Applique Armor is The rear parts of the turret and the chassis are fitted with slat armour to increase protection against anti-tank rocket-propelled grenade (RPG) attacks. The anti-tank launch units include armored shields for the missiles, protecting the missiles from splinters and small arms fire..
The Explosive Reactive Armor is The BMPT-72 hull and turret are made of steel armour and integrates latest protection systems with explosive reactive armour (ERA) to the front of the turret, a detachable ERA module on the glacis plate and applique ERA on the sides of the hull and turret..
The Active Protection System is INA.
The Mine Clearing is INA.
The Dozer Blade is A dozer blade mounted under the nose of the tank is used for clearing obstacles and preparing fire positions and, like most other Russian tanks. The dozer blade can be brought into the operating position in 1 or 2 minutes and enables the BMTT-72 tank to prepare its own defilade position without calling on engineer support..
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is Six smoke-grenade launchers are fitted on the turret..

