This document describes the Type 039A Class (Yuan Class) Chinese Diesel-Electric Submarine.

The Type 039A submarine (NATO reporting name: Yuan class) is a class of diesel-electric submarine in China's People's Liberation Army Navy. It is China's first AIP-powered submarine and is presumed to be one of the quietest diesel-electric submarine classes in service. This class is the successor of the Type 039 submarine. The official Chinese designation is 039A as the ship is based on the 039 class, but as the 039A has very little resemblance to the 039 it is commonly referred to as the Type 041. The class is designed to replace the aging Type 033 Romeo and the older Type 035 submarines that previously formed the backbone of the conventional submarine force.

According to an early assessment by the US Naval Institute, the Yuan class was primarily designed as "an anti-ship cruise missile (ASCM) platform capable of hiding submerged for long periods of time in difficult to access shallow littorals. However, another assessment by USNI includes an open-ocean capability that can be used beyond coastal waters. Also updated was its role within China's naval fleet, and as of August 2015, it is considered to be a more traditional attack submarine, with a secondary ASCM role.

The Type 039A inherits the tail design of Type 039 (NATO codename: Song class) with four diving planes and a single large shaft. A pair of foreplanes are positioned in the middle of the sail. The submarine is equipped with an indigenously developed cabin-raft (shock absorbers) system that helped to reduce the noise levels by over 35 dB. Additionally, the submarine is covered with rubber anti-sonar protection tiles to reduce the risk of detection. A new improved "C" variant was also launched.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China, Pakistan.

Here is System information for the Type 039A Class (Yuan Class) Chinese Diesel-Electric Submarine:
The Alternative Designation is Type 039A Class; Yuan Class.
The Type is Diesel-Electric Submarine.
The Builder is Wuchang Shipbuilding, Wuhan.
The Crew is 52.
The Note is There is little publicly known about the new Chinese YUAN-class diesel-electric powered submarine. The class is comparable to the Russian KILO-class (Project 636 ) submarine, however with numerous improvements..

Here is Dimensions information for the Type 039A Class (Yuan Class) Chinese Diesel-Electric Submarine:
The Length is 72.0 m.
The Beam is 8.4 m.
The Draft is Unknown.
The Displacement, Surface is 2,350 tons surface.
The Displacement, Submerged is 3,126 tons submerged.

Here is Propulsion System information for the Type 039A Class (Yuan Class) Chinese Diesel-Electric Submarine:
The Engine Name is 4 x Shaanxi diesels.
The Engine Type is Diesel-Electric.
The Engine Power is 6,092 total bhp; 1 shaft.
The Maximum Range is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 12 knots (surfaced)/25 knots (submerged).

Here is Missile #1 information for the Type 039A Class (Yuan Class) Chinese Diesel-Electric Submarine of the Missile Weapon System:
The Name is YJ-8(C-801) (NATO: CSS-N-4 Sardine).
The Type is Anti-Ship Cruise Missile.
The Length is 5.81 m.
The Weight is 815 kg.
The Warhead is 165 kg.
The Engine is Rocket.
The Propellant is Solid Rocket.
The Operational Range is 42 km.
The Flight Altitude is 5 or 7 m.
The Maximum Speed is Mach 0.9.
The Guidance System is Inertial navigation/active radar homing terminal guidance.
The Basic Load is 8.

Here is Torpedoes information for the Type 039A Class (Yuan Class) Chinese Diesel-Electric Submarine:
The Torpedo Tubes is 6 x  533-mm bow-mounted.
The Torpedos is Yu-3 anti-ship torpedoes; Yu-4 anti-sub torpedoes; or 53-65KE wake-homing torpedoes..
The Basic Load is 18.

Here is Fire Control Systems information for the Type 039A Class (Yuan Class) Chinese Diesel-Electric Submarine:
The FCS Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is Yes.
The Battle Management System is INA.

Here is Radar Systems information for the Type 039A Class (Yuan Class) Chinese Diesel-Electric Submarine:
The Name is INA.
The Type is Search/Navigation Radar.
The Frequency is INA.
The Range is INA.

Here is Sonar #1 information for the Type 039A Class (Yuan Class) Chinese Diesel-Electric Submarine of the Sonar Systems:
The Name is INA.
The Type is 1 x active/passive medium-frequency bow-mounted sonar.

Here is Sonar #2 information for the Type 039A Class (Yuan Class) Chinese Diesel-Electric Submarine of the Sonar Systems:
The Name is INA.
The Type is 1 x high freq active classification/mine avoidance sonar.

Here is Protection information for the Type 039A Class (Yuan Class) Chinese Diesel-Electric Submarine:
The Active Protection System is INA.
The Countermeasures is Yes.
The NBC Water Washdown System is Yes.
The EW is 1 X Radar Warning.

