This document describes the P2 Mk 2 / P3 Mk 2 Pakistani Anti-Tank Blast Mine.

The P2 Mk2 and P3 Mk2 are Pakistani plastic cased minimum metal anti-tank blast mines. The P2 Mk2 has a square case with a central circular ribbed pressure plate, the P3 is circular with a central circular pressure plate. Both mines use anti-personnel mines as the fuse, typically the either the P4 Mk1 or P2 Mk2 anti-personnel mines. The anti-personnel mine sits in a cavity below the pressure plate, when enough pressure is place on the pressure plate of the mine, it collapses onto the anti-personnel mine triggering it and the main charge which sits below it. A yellow canvas carrying strap is normally fitted to the side of the mine. The mines have a secondary fuse well on the bottom which can be used with anti-handling devices. A GLM-2 electronic booby trap can be fitted to the cavity under the pressure plate. The mine is supplied with a steel disc which makes the mine more easily detectable, although this is seldom used. Since 1997 only a detectable version of the mine has been produced, and to comply with the Convention on Conventional Weapons amended protocol II, Pakistani stocks of the mine are being retrofitted with steel detection discs. The mines are found in Afghanistan, Angola, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Pakistan, Somalia, and Tajikistan.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Pakistan.

Here is System information for the P2 Mk 2 / P3 Mk 2 Pakistani Anti-Tank Blast Mine:
The Country of Manufacture is Pakistan.
The # of User Countries is 5+.
The Emplacement Method is manual.
The Diameter is 270.
The Height is 130.
The Armor Penetration (mm)/ Kill Mechanism is blast.
The Effective Range is 0, typical with contact mine.
The Detectability/ Composition is very difficult plastic, only metal is spring, striker tip, and shear wire.
The Anti-Handling is probable- 2nd fuze well.
The Fuze Type/Self Neutralize is pressure
(180-300 kg).
The Explosive Type & Weight/Total Weight (kg) is 6
Total: 6.5.
The Operating Pressure is 180 to 300 kg when fitted with pressure plate, 10 kg without.
The Comment is Very difficult to detect w/hand held-detectors. Can also be used as very large AP mine.

