This document describes the ST-35 Silent Thunder Ukrainian Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The ST-35 Silent Thunder Ukrainian Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) is a weapon system in which the munition loiters around the target area for some time, searches for targets, or uses reconnaissance data from other sources, and attacks once a target is located. Loitering munitions enable faster reaction times against concealed or hidden targets that emerge for short periods without placing high-value platforms close to the target area and also allow more selective targeting. Having a vertical trajectory of target attack Silent Thunder can destroy the target in a densely built urban area with minimum risk of harm to civil humans, and infrastructure and minimize the level of collateral damage.

ST-35 “Silent Thunder” was developed using modern technological solutions and designed to improve operational capabilities and the level of radar, visual and acoustic invisibility. Long-term experience in the development, production, and support of a life cycle of military purpose unmanned systems, widely applied in military conflicts, was used during this system creation.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Ukraine.

Here is System information for the ST-35 Silent Thunder Ukrainian Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is ST-35 Silent Thunder.
The Type is Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is LLC SPC Athlon Avia.
The Autonomy is Semi-Autonomous.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Warhead Type is FAE, HEAT, HEF.
The Probility of Hitting the Target is 95%.
The Launching System is Vertical take-off with a multi-rotor.
The Targeting Method is Automatic, on television / IR channel.

Here is Dimensions information for the ST-35 Silent Thunder Ukrainian Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Warhead Weight is 3.5 kg.
The Maximum Takeoff Weight is 9.5 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the ST-35 Silent Thunder Ukrainian Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Electric.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 150 km/h.
The Cruising Speed is 120-140 km/h.
The Service Ceiling is 1,200 m.
The Control Radius is 30 km.
The Endurance is 60 min.

