This document describes the OH-1 Japanese Light Scout and Observation Helicopter.

The Kawasaki OH-1 (nickname: "Ninja") is a military scout/observation helicopter developed and manufactured by the Kawasaki Aerospace Company. The primary operator is the Japan Ground Self-Defense Force (JGSDF), who originally procured the OH-1 as a domestically-produced successor to their existing OH-6D Loach fleet. The OH-1 has the distinction of being the first helicopter to be entirely produced in Japan.

In addition to its use an observation helicopter, it can also be armed with various munitions to directly participate in combat; such weapons include a limited quantity of anti-tank missiles or air-to-air missiles for self-defense purposes. Several variants of the OH-1 have been proposed, these have included derivatives of the type to serve as an attack helicopter as well as an aborted project to develop utility helicopter based on OH-1. As of March 2014, a total of 38 OH-1s have entered service with the JGSDF, so far these have complemented the existing OH-6Ds rather than replace them.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Japan.

Here is Variants information for the OH-1 Japanese Light Scout and Observation Helicopter:
The AH-2 is Proposed attack helicopter derivative that would have featured uprated engines and additional anti-tank armaments; rejected in favour of Boeing AH-64 Apache..
The UH-X utility helicopter is Technology developed by Kawasaki for the OH-1 is being integrated into a new aircraft design, the UH-X , in order to "reduce technological risks associated with development and appropriately control life cycle costs," according to the company. The new aircraft is expected by 2017, according to a Shephard Media release dated May 29, 2012. 

Kawasaki has proposed a new cabin, transmission, avionics and engines for the utility version, including a new control system, rotor hub and enhanced rotor-blade transmission protection. In fiscal year 2006, Tokyo began funding development of a more powerful engine (with a goal of 1,300 shp). More than 120 helicopters are needed to meet the JGSDF requirement for a utility helicopter.

Fuji Heavy Industries was selected as prime contractor for the UH-X helicopter program in July 2015. The aircraft will be based on the Bell 412 twin-engine utility helicopter..

Here is System information for the OH-1 Japanese Light Scout and Observation Helicopter:
The Alternative Designation is Kawasaki OH-1 Japanese Light Scout and Observation Helicopter.
The Type is Attack Helicopter.
The Primary Function is Reconnaissance missions, Ground attack and Close-Air Support.
The Manufacturer is Kawasaki.
The Crew is 2.
The Blades, Main Rotor is 4.
The Number of Engines is 2.
The Main rotor diameter is 11.6.
The Main rotor area is 1138.
The Tail Rotor, Name is Fenestron (fantail) tail rotor.
The Blades, Tail Rotor is 8-18.
The Number of Hard Points is Hardpoints: 4 × pylons for rockets, gun pods, anti-tank missiles, or Type 91 air-to-air missiles.
The Note #1: is Each crew member has two LCD colour multi-function displays, and the gunner has a head-up display. The mission avionics include a trainable roof-mounted Kawasaki package (forward of the main rotor) with a Fujitsu thermal imager, NEC colour TV camera and NEC laser rangefinder. Protection is enhanced by the installation of an infra-red jammer on the helicopter's spine to rear of the main gearbox..

Here is Dimensions information for the OH-1 Japanese Light Scout and Observation Helicopter:
The Length is 12.
The Width is INA.
The Main Rotor Diameter is 11.6.
The Weight, Combat is 3550.
The Weight, Empty is 2500.
The Weight, Gross is 4000.
The Height is 3.8.

Here is Automotive information for the OH-1 Japanese Light Scout and Observation Helicopter:
The Engine Name is 2 x Mitsubishi TS1-M-10.
The Engine Type is Turboshaft.
The Engine Power is 888.
The Cruising Range is 550.
The Speed, Maximum is 306.
The Speed, Average is INA.
The Maximum Altitude is 5000.

Here is Main Gun System information for the OH-1 Japanese Light Scout and Observation Helicopter:
The Hardpoints is Hardpoints: 4 × pylons for rockets, gun pods, anti-tank missiles, or Type 91 air-to-air missiles.

Here is Missile System #1 information for the OH-1 Japanese Light Scout and Observation Helicopter of the Missile Weapon Systems:
The Name is Toshiba Type 91 short-range air-to-air missiles, anti-tank missiles.
The Type is Air to Air and Anti-tank Missiles.
The Length is 1.43.
The Weight is 11.5.
The Diameter is 80.
The Engine is Solid Rocket Motor Mach 1.9.
The Guidance System is Infrared homing.

Here is Fire Control and Avionics information for the OH-1 Japanese Light Scout and Observation Helicopter:
The Fire Control System Type is INA.
The Fire Control Radar is INA.
The Navigation Radar is INA.
The Digital or Analog Cockpit is Digital Cockpit.
The Direct Fire Control is INA.
The Laser Designator is INA.

Here is Protection information for the OH-1 Japanese Light Scout and Observation Helicopter:
The Add on Armor is Cockpit is fitted with armor protection.
The Stealth Properties is INA.
The Heat Signature Reduction is INA.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The EW Counter Measures/CCM is INA.
The Counter Measures (Chaff/Flares) is Infra-red jammer on the helicopter's spine to rear of the main gearbox. Used to jam IR homing missile sensors..

