This document describes the Vapor 35 American All-Electric Helicopter UAS.

With advanced autopilot and a variety of available sensors, the all-electric VAPOR 35 Helicopter UAS provides the operational flexibility to meet your most demanding missions. Featuring military-grade components, intelligent
HW/SW system design, and high energy density lithium-polymer battery, VAPOR delivers enhanced flight stability and up to one hour of flight time on a single battery charge. Multi-mission capable, VAPOR 35’s modular payload bay provides access to a variety of available integrated sensors and third party payloads including
gimbaled EO/IR, survey grade PPK mapping, LiDAR and hyperspectral sensors. VAPOR 35’s economical packout and single case mission configuration enables one-man lift operation. Every VAPOR Helicopter UAS incorporates proprietary HeliSynth™ technology for system level optimization including advanced autopilot, payload control & operation, and mission performance efficiency.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the Vapor 35 American All-Electric Helicopter UAS:
The Vapor 55 is INA.

Here is System information for the Vapor 35 American All-Electric Helicopter UAS:
The Alternate Designation is Vapor 35.
The Type is Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS).
The Manufacturer is AeroVironment.
The Payload Capacity is 5 lbs (2.27 kg) – 10 lbs (4.5 kg).
The Payload Options is EO/IR, LiDAR, Hyperspectral, PPK Mapping, Drop Mechanism.
The Data Links is 900 MHz, 2.4 GHz, 5.8 GHz, Satellite.

Here is Dimensions information for the Vapor 35 American All-Electric Helicopter UAS:
The Aircraft Length is 1,941 mm.
The Aircraft Width is 625 mm.
The Aircraft Height is 493 mm.
The Rotor Diameter is 1,704 mm.
The Gross Weight is 14.5 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Vapor 35 American All-Electric Helicopter UAS:
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is INA.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Range is 56 km.
The Operating Altitude is INA.
The Max Cruise Endurance is 60 minutes with full payload.
The Max Hover Endurance is 45 minutes with full payload.
The Max Wind Peak is 20 kts (23 MPH); Gusts 40 kts (45 MPH).
The Operating Altitude is 0-12,000 MSL.

