This document describes the Shanyi 05 Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).

The Shanyi 05 Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV)  has been developed for field reconnaissance, battlefield assessment, anti-terrorism EOD, rescue in small spaces.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is System information for the Shanyi 05 Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Alternative Designation is Shanyi 05; Mini Shanyi; Mountain Ant 05 Micro Platform.
The Type is Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).
The Manufacturer is Zhong Tian Guide Control Technology Co Ltd.
The Mission is The Shanyi 05 Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV)  has been developed for field reconnaissance, battlefield assessment, anti-terrorism EOD, rescue in small spaces..
The Configuration is Tracked.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Control is Control of the platform is carried out by a standard portable control unit..
The Payload Capacity is A large internal bay area inside the chassis permits a number of payloads (reconnaissance strike, etc) to be mounted..
The Environmental is IP67.

Here is Dimensions information for the Shanyi 05 Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Length is 0.75 m.
The Width is 0.42 m.
The Height is 0.20 m.
The Weight is 11 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Shanyi 05 Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Electric.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Range is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 50 km/h.
The Maximum Gradient Climb is 35˚.
The Side Slope is 25˚.
The Endurance is 5 hours.

Here is Manipulator Arm information for the Shanyi 05 Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Note is Robotic arms can be mounted to the upper part of the robot..

Here is Protection information for the Shanyi 05 Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Armor is The chassis is constructed from a high-strength non-metallic plate..
The Applique Armor is INA.

