This document describes the Cougar HE American 6x6 Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP).

The Cougar is an MRAP and infantry mobility vehicle structured to be resistant to landmines and improvised munitions.

The Cougar comes in two main configurations, a 4×4 and 6×6. It is designed for the transport and protection of troops and equipment, especially against mines or IEDs. The two main configurations come in specific variants.

It is a family of armored vehicles produced by Force Protection Inc, which manufactures ballistic and mine-protected vehicles. The vehicles are integrated by Spartan Motors. These vehicles are protected against small arms, land mines, and improvised explosive devices (IEDs) using a combination of design features and materials to protect both the crew and engine compartment against a wide range of attacks. A Monocoque type, V-shaped hull extends to the engine bay and serves to direct the blast away from under the vehicle. The dual air-conditioners help keep heavily dressed troops from overheating in temperatures over 100 °F (38 °C) in Iraq.

Force Protection, Inc. was formed in 2002 when Sonic Jet purchased Technical Solutions Group, using the name Sonic Jet until 2004. Technical Solutions Group had been a defense company in the US that was involved in a range of products, including mine-resistant vehicles based on South African designs. A few vehicles were sold to the US Army for evaluation, and a small fleet of heavily protected vehicles was sold to the British Army in 2001.

In 2004, the new Cougar was designed by a small British-led team in the US at Force Protection, Inc., in response to an urgent requirement by the US Marine Corps. This was a new design, developed in the US, based on an evolution of vehicle mine-protection technology used by the South African Army and Rhodesian Security Forces since the 1970s. The very first sketches of the new vehicle were made in late March 2004 in response to those initial USMC inquiries. The rapid development and production that followed were based upon the USMC request that the first vehicle is delivered within 6 months of an order – which was subsequently placed in mid-April 2004 for 27 units.

The new design was called Cougar to provide a degree of continuity with the older designs but had little in common with them. The former vehicles were almost entirely non-compliant with NATO standards for protection, human factors, and safety, which made those designs obsolete. 
After being built, the first vehicle was only trialed by doing some circuits of the company campus and trundling over a few rocks and beams set up by the designer to provide a degree of shake-down testing as well as a demonstration course. Urgent operational requirements dictated that the first unit be shipped to the theater as fast as possible and those involved in the project decided that the risk of doing so was outweighed by the advantages of having the vehicle available. The Cougar was fully trialed when it became part of the MRAP program.

The first Cougars were called HEV (hardened engineer vehicle), which became JERRV when the Army joined the program, and then MRAP for political reasons when the requirement for many thousands of units was issued.

Some 4,000 of these vehicles were fielded under the US military's MRAP (Mine Resistant Ambush Protected) and other vehicle programs. US Defense Secretary Robert Gates demanded that the vehicles be ordered in larger numbers after the Marines reported in 2004 that no troops had died in more than 300 IED attacks on Cougars. Since then, Cougar vehicles have been hit by improvised explosive devices (IEDs) many times in Iraq with few fatalities. Britain chose the Cougar over the RG-31 Nyala for their "Mastiff" APV.

As of December 2011, the Pentagon planned to add the Crows II remote weapon station and the Frag Kit 6 anti-EFP armor.

Official data states that the Cougar is able to withstand a blast of at least 14 kg TNT (30.86 lb) under a wheel and 7 kg TNT (15.43 lb) under a belly.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Canada, Croatia, Denmark, Djibouti, Poland, United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the Cougar HE American 6x6 Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Cougar HEV (Hardened engineer vehicle) is 4×4 and 6×6 vehicles ordered in 2004 by the USMC..
The Badger ILAV (Iraqi Light Armored Vehicle) is Based on the Cougar and manufactured by FPII and BAE Systems for the Iraqi Army. The ILAV is based on the Cougar, which can carry ten passengers (the six-wheel version can carry 16). The Cougar/ILAV vehicle uses a capsule design to protect the passengers and key vehicle components from mines and roadside bombs. The larger Cougar costs about $730,000 each, fully equipped. The Cougars have been very popular with American troops, and with Iraqis who have worked with them. 865 ILAVs were ordered by Iraq and 18 by Yemen. The ILAV gives the Iraqis the same degree of protection that most Coalition troops have..
The Cougar JERRV (Joint EOD rapid response vehicle) is 4×4 and 6×6 variants for the US Army, USAF, and USMC. Approx. 200 ordered in 2005 and 2006, with another 200 ordered in late 2006 but now called MRAPs to take account of the new US military/political initiative to be seen to be responding to public concerns about casualties..
The Cougar ISS is Based on the Cougar 4×4, the ISS is fitted with an integrated independent suspension system that gives the vehicle increased cross-country mobility..
The Ridgeback PPV (Protected Patrol Vehicle) is British version of the Cougar 4x4 from FPII base vehicles with a British armor package and electronics, including installation of Enforcer remote weapon stations on some vehicles. In 2015, Salisbury coroner David Ridley raised several "points of concern" relating to the vehicle when recording a narrative verdict on the deaths of four soldiers who drowned in Helmand, Afghanistan in June 2010..
The Mastiff PPV (Protected Patrol Vehicle) is British version of the Cougar 6×6 which arrived in Afghanistan during December 2006, with FPII providing the base vehicle and NP Aerospace in the UK integrating electronics and the British armour package. The Mastiff 2 is an improved version with a capacity of 2 + 8 which arrived in Afghanistan during June 2009. The Mastiff is armed with a 7.62 mm GPMG, 12.7 mm Heavy Machine Gun or 40 mm Grenade Machine Gun..
The Mastiff 2 'Protected Eyes' is A version of the British Mastiff specially designed for the Talisman Counter-IED program. It is fitted with an M151 Protector remote weapon station, mine plow, optical camera and a Micro Air Vehicle (MAV) with screens in the back to display its camera feed..
The Wolfhound (Heavy Tactical Support Vehicle) is British modification of the Cougar 6×6, with FPII providing the base vehicle and NP Aerospace in the UK integrating electronics and the British armor package. The first Wolfhounds entered service in Afghanistan in October 2010. 130 have been ordered for gun tractor and logistical roles..
The Timberwolf is Cougar variant that was being marketed by Malley Industries of Dieppe, NB Canada for the replacement of the RG-31 and LAV for the Canadian Forces; Malley Industries lost the contract to Textron TAPV..
The Fire Support Cougar is Cougar 4x4 chassis fitted with the complete turret and main gun assembly of the Panhard AML-90 armored car. In service with the Djiboutian Army..
The Recovery of Airbase Denied by Ordnance (RADBO) is Category I Cougar equipped with a U.S. Air Force-designed directed energy weapon, interrogator arm, console, and other features to clear unexploded ordnance from airfields..

Here is System information for the Cougar HE American 6x6 Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Alternative Designation is Cougar HE.
The Type is Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP).
The Manufacturer is General Dynamics Land Systems.
The Configuration is 6x6.
The Mission is When it comes to reliability, even after a hit the Cougar can return to the field in a matter of hours and perform a number of tasks such as Command and Control, EOD, Patrol, Convoy Support, Forward Observation, Reconnaissance, Med-Evac and more..
The Family is MRAP.
The Crew is 2.
The Passenger Capacity is 10.
The Note is These vehicles were designed to have good road speeds and endurance (to allow for the long distances traveled, as well as reduced maintenance requirements because of their wheeled design) and were specifically designed to maximize passenger survivability against small arms ambushes and conventionally laid mines..

Here is Dimensions information for the Cougar HE American 6x6 Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Length is 7.08.
The Width is 2.74.
The Height is 2.64.
The Weight, Curb is 17.2.
The Weight, Gross Max is 22.2.
The Payload Capacity is 5.90.

Here is Automotive information for the Cougar HE American 6x6 Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Engine Name is Caterpillar C-7 Diesel I6.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 330.
The Cruising Range is 600.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 105.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.
The Gradient is 60.
The Side Slope is 30.
The Vertical Step is 0.5.
The Trench is 0.5.
The Fording Depth is 1.

Here is Communications information for the Cougar HE American 6x6 Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Note is Varies on which country is operating the Cougar.

Here is System information for the Cougar HE American 6x6 Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) of the Main Gun:
The Name is M153 CROWS II.
The Type is Common Remotely Operated Weapon Station (CROWS).
The Proliferation is More than a thousand M153 CROWS II systems are in use.
 It has been employed on M1 Abrams main battle tanks, various versions of the Humvee, Buffalo MRVs, RG-31 Nyalas, RG-33s, the Army's M1126 Stryker APC, and was soon integrated into the Oshkosh M-ATV, JERRV, Caiman, and MaxxPro..
The Manufacturer is (Kongsberg Gruppen.
The Maximum Elevation is +60.
The Minimum Elevation is -20.
The Traverse Range is 360.
The Traverse Left is 180.
The Traverse Right is 180.
The Available Weapons to Mount to the M153 Crows II is The CROWS system provides an operator with the ability to acquire and engage targets while inside a vehicle, protected by its armor. It is designed to mount on a variety of vehicle platforms and supports the Mk 19 grenade launcher, M2 .50 Caliber Machine Gun, M240B Machine Gun, and M249 Squad Automatic Weapon..
The Gyro-stabilized is Yes.
The Daylight Video Camera is Yes.
The Thermal Camera is Yes.
The Laser Rangefinder is Yes.
The Computerized FCS is Yes.
The Weight is 172.
The Note is Its camera systems can identify targets out to 1,500 meters away, and the mount's absorption of about 85% of weapon recoil delivers an estimated 95% accuracy rate, as well as the ability to track targets moving 25 mph (40 km/h)..

Here is Ammunition information for the Cougar HE American 6x6 Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) of the Main Gun:
The Note #1 is The CROWS system provides an operator with the ability to acquire and engage targets while inside a vehicle, protected by its armor. It is designed to mount on a variety of vehicle platforms and supports the Mk 19 grenade launcher, M2 .50 Caliber Machine Gun, M240B Machine Gun, and M249 Squad Automatic Weapon..
The Note #2 is Large ammunition boxes enable for sustained firing periods, carrying 96 rounds for the Mk 19, 400 rounds for the M2, 1,000 rounds for the M240B, and 1,600 rounds for the M249. Each CROWS costs $190,000..

Here is Protection information for the Cougar HE American 6x6 Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Armor is Allround protected from .50 cal.
The Applique Armor is Available.
The Active Protection System is INA.
The Mine Clearing is Available.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is INA.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.
The Note is Official data states that the Cougar is able to withstand a blast of at least 14 kg TNT (30.86 lb) under a wheel and 7 kg TNT (15.43 lb) under a belly..

