This document describes the KrAZ MPV AMB (Shrek One AMB) Ukrainian 4x4 Armored Ambulance.

The KrAZ Ambulance with underbelly mine protection is intended for operation in explosion hazardous areas.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Canada, Ukraine.

Here is Variants information for the KrAZ MPV AMB (Shrek One AMB) Ukrainian 4x4 Armored Ambulance:
The KrAZ MPV TC (Shrek One) is The KrAZ MPV TC Ukrainian 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) was developed by Streit Group of Canada in partnership with AutoKrAZ of Ukraine. It is based on a KrAZ-5233 4x4 all-terrain military truck..
The KrAZ MPV with IA is A specialized route clearance vehicle..
The Feona is A 6x6 mine resistant ambush protected vehicle..

Here is System information for the KrAZ MPV AMB (Shrek One AMB) Ukrainian 4x4 Armored Ambulance:
The Alternative Designation is KrAZ MPV AMB; Shrek One AMB.
The Type is Armored Ambulance.
The Manufacturer is It was developed by Streit Group of Canada in partnership with AutoKrAZ of Ukraine..
The Configuration is 4x4.
The Crew is 2.
The Ablulance Equipment is 4 stretchers with restraining straps;
“F” type oxygen cylinders,  outlets at the head of stretchers to connect regulators; Ramp for patient loading, rear door opening hydraulic system; Headrest for patient safety; 3 electrical sockets on each side; 2 ALS bags..
The Options is 2 outside spare wheels; Heavy-duty air-conditioning system for tropical countries; Winch; VHF and HF radio system; 2 x 12 V power connectors in front of the vehicle and 4 x 12 V power connectors at the rear may be used for telephone, GPS and other devices power supply fitted with standard 12 V power adapters; AC-to-DC inverter 220 V to supply power for 4 computers / telephones or similar devices. Sockets are at the rear
Drawbar hitch is mounted in front and rear parts according to NATO standard..

Here is Dimensions information for the KrAZ MPV AMB (Shrek One AMB) Ukrainian 4x4 Armored Ambulance:
The Length is 7.99 m.
The Width is 3.15 m.
The Height is 3.08 m.
The Weight, Combat is 16 tons.

Here is Automotive information for the KrAZ MPV AMB (Shrek One AMB) Ukrainian 4x4 Armored Ambulance:
The Engine Name is YaMZ-238D.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 330 hp.
The Maximum Range is 1,000 km.
The Maximum Speed is 80 km/h.
The Amphibious is No.
The Gradient is 60%.
The Side Slope is 30%.
The Vertical Step is 0.5 m.
The Trench is 0.5 m.
The Fording is 1.5 m.

Here is Protection information for the KrAZ MPV AMB (Shrek One AMB) Ukrainian 4x4 Armored Ambulance:
The Ballistic Protection is B6+/STANAG 4569 Level 2..
The Window Glass is Transparent multi-layer bulletproof glass. Polycarbonate inner layer.
The Underbelly mine protection is 2 x TM57 landmines (14kg TNT) under any wheel

1 x TM 57 landmine (7kg TNT) directly under bottom.
The Underbelly design is V-shaped.
The Applique Armor is Available.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is No.

