This document describes the Gotland Class Swedish Diesel-Electric Submarine.

The Gotland Class Swedish Diesel-Electric Submarine  were designed and built by the Kockums shipyard in Sweden. They are the first submarines in the world to feature a Stirling engine air-independent propulsion (AIP) system, which extends their underwater endurance from a few days to weeks. This capability had previously only been available with nuclear-powered submarines.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Sweden.

Here is Variants information for the Gotland Class Swedish Diesel-Electric Submarine:
The HSwMS Gotland is Commissioned: 1996
Status: Active.
The HSwMS Uppland is Commissioned: 1996
Status: Active.
The HSwMS Halland is Commissioned: 1996
Status: Active.

Here is System information for the Gotland Class Swedish Diesel-Electric Submarine:
The Alternative Designation is Gotland Class.
The Type is Diesel-Electric Submarine.
The Builder is Kockums.
The Crew is 22 Officers, 32 Enlisted.

Here is Dimensions information for the Gotland Class Swedish Diesel-Electric Submarine:
The Length is 62.4 m.
The Height is INA.
The Beam is 6.2 m.
The Draft is 5.6 m.
The Displacement, Surfaced is 1,575 tons.
The Displacement, Submerged is 1,680 tons.

Here is Propulsion System information for the Gotland Class Swedish Diesel-Electric Submarine:
The Engine Name is 2 MTU 16V 396 SE84.
The Engine Type is Diesel-Electric.
The Engine Power is 3,620 hp (2.7 MW).
The Maximum Range is INA.
The Maximum Speed, Surfaced is 11 knots (20 km/h).
The Maximum Speed, Submerged is 20 knots (37 km/h) on batteries; 5 knots (9.3 km/h) on AIP.

Here is Torpedo System information for the Gotland Class Swedish Diesel-Electric Submarine:
The Note is 4 × 533 mm Torpedo tubes and 
2 × 400 mm Torpedo tubes.

Here is Mine System information for the Gotland Class Swedish Diesel-Electric Submarine:
The Note is 48 × Externally Mounted Naval Mines.

Here is Sonar Systems information for the Gotland Class Swedish Diesel-Electric Submarine:
The Note is 1 x CSU 90-2 Integrated sonar sensor suite.

Here is Protection information for the Gotland Class Swedish Diesel-Electric Submarine:
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Electronic Countermeasures is 1 x Racal THORN Manta S; radar warning.
The NBC Water Washdown System is Yes.

