This document describes the Telemax 4x4 German Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).

Telemax 4x4
telemax with wheels:
Versatile and cost-efficient!
The starter version with a broad wheelbase and 4-wheel drive for rapid deployments on challenging terrains and delicate flooring requiring protection.

Features:
*Precision 6-axis manipulator with TCP control and automatic tool change
*Rugged four-wheel drive
*Top speed of up to 11.5 km/h (7 mph)
*Wide wheelbase with increased surface contact
*Lifting capacity up to 20 kg (44 lbs.)
*More than 16 pre-programmed automatic manipulator motion sequences
*Interchangeability of accessories within the telemax family, e.g. batteries, tools, cameras and sensors

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Germany.

Here is Variants information for the Telemax 4x4 German Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Telemax 4x4 is elemax with wheels:
Versatile and cost-efficient!
The starter version with a broad wheelbase and 4-wheel drive for rapid deployments on challenging terrains and delicate flooring requiring protection..
The Telemax PRO is The original telemax:
Compact design and high reach!
A truly versatile robot capable of handling significant gradients and obstacles, it boasts an impressive manipulator reach, both vertically and horizontally, combined with minimal dimensions. Perfect for deployments in built-up areas and confined spaces..
The Telemax HYBRID is The best of both worlds – Compact and strong!
The combination of a powerful arm and compact dimensions for the toughest challenges..
The Telemax PLUS is The biggest and strongest telemax:
Versatile and strong!
Our largest and strongest telemax, its exceptional ability to handle gradients and terrains makes it ideal for a particularly broad range of applications..
The Telemax RECCE is Fast solution for reconnaissance:
Agile and smart!
Compact and high performance reconnaissance system without a manipulator provides detailed information from the site, especially when equipped with our autonomy/3D mapping accessory..

Here is System information for the Telemax 4x4 German Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Alternative Designation is Telemax 4x4.
The Type is Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).
The Manufacturer is Faulhaber.
The Crew is 1.
The Payload Capacity is up to 20 kg.
The Note is More than 16 pre-programmed automatic manipulator motion sequences.

Here is Dimensions information for the Telemax 4x4 German Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Length is 1018 mm.
The Width is 603 mm.
The Height is 813 mm.
The Manipulator, Upward Reach is 2071 mm.
The Manipulator, Forward Reach is 1586 mm.
The Manipulator, Downward Reach is 1060 mm.
The Weight is Standard speed version: 66 kg (145 lbs.)
High speed version: 68 kg (149 lbs.).
The Firing Channel is 3.
The Payload is 35 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Telemax 4x4 German Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is INA.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Drive is 4 wheels.
The Maximum Speed is Standard speed version: max. 4.5 km/h (2.7 mph)
High speed version: max. 11.5 km/h (7 mph).
The Operational Range is INA.
The Mobility, Slopes is 38° (standard speed version, depending on surface).
The Mobility, Stairs is 17.5°.
The Mobility, Obstacle Height is 200 mm.
The Mobility, Gap Width is 330 mm.
The Fording Depth is 280 mm.
The Battery is NiMh battery (24 V, 15 Ah):.
The Endurance is NiMh battery (24 V, 15 Ah):
approx. 3 h with 1 battery; approx. 6 h with 2 batteries
Li-ion battery (26 V, 40 Ah):
approx. 7.5 h with 1 battery; approx. 15 h with 2 batteries.

Here is Protection information for the Telemax 4x4 German Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is INA.

