This document describes the Spire Russian 6x6 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).

The Spire Russian 6x6 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) is designed to carry out reconnaissance and fire support.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is System information for the Spire Russian 6x6 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Alternative Designation is Spire.
The Type is Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).
The Manufacturer is Federal State Unitary Enterprise, Scientific-Research Institute of Applied Problems (FSUE "GosNIIPP").
The Configuration is 6x6.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Operator is Control of the Spire is conducted from a standard portable control unit. An operator can control the vehicle from a distance of 1 km line-of-sight (LoS) and up to 5 km non-line-of-sight (NLoS)..

Here is Dimensions information for the Spire Russian 6x6 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Weight, Combat is 248 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Spire Russian 6x6 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Battery.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 5 km/h.
The Radio Operating Range is 1 km.
The Wire Operating Range is 5 km.
The Continuous Endurance is 3 hours.
The Standby Endurance is 72 hours.

Here is Communications information for the Spire Russian 6x6 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Note is An operator can control the vehicle from a distance of 1 km line-of-sight (LoS) and up to 5 km non-line-of-sight (NLoS)..

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Spire Russian 6x6 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Note is The platform can be mounted with a Kalashnikov PKT 7.62 mm MG as well as an RShG-2 72.5 mm (multipurpose assault weapon). The unit can also incorporate a rocket-propelled grenade launcher RPG-26 (light anti-tank weapon)..

Here is Protection information for the Spire Russian 6x6 Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is INA.

