This document describes the First Win Thai 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP).

The First Win Thai 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP)  is the original vehicle of the family. It is designed to be an economical solution to protected mobility requirements. It carries protection against ballistic and mine threats as well as limited weapon options.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Bhutan, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand.

Here is Variants information for the First Win Thai 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The First Win is The original model. Known as First Win Armored Multi-Purpose Vehicle..
The First Win II is Model developed from First Win ICV. To offer in the Royal Thai Navy 4x4 Armored Multi-Purpose Vehicle procurement project. And it's the same model that was exported to the Malaysian Army..
The First Win AAV (Armored Ambulance Vehicle) is Developed from First Win II..
The First Win AFV (Armored Fighting Vehicle) is It is a wheeled armored vehicle used for tactical 4 x 4 combat or other missions. It is strong enough to withstand local conditions..
The First Win AIFV (Armored Infantry Fighting Vehicle) is Developed from First Win AFV..
The First Win ALV (Armored Light Vehicle) is Can carry personnel with maneuverability in limited terrain. It is robust enough to withstand the operating conditions in an area of operation where there are armed attacks and improvised explosive devices..
The First Win Anti-Riot is Used by the Royal Thai Police with a remote control weapon system turret on top. Has a capacity of eight occupants..
The First Win ATV (Armored Tactical Vehicle) is A armored Vehicle used in reconnaissance missions, Operating in risk areas..
The First Win ATV II is Slightly different on the front of the car from the First Win ATV..
The First Win AWAV (Armored Wheel Amphibious Vehicle) is Prototype, in testing..
The First Win-E is A more compact variant with gross vehicle weight of 10 tons, comparable to the HMMWV..
The First Win IFV (Infantry Fighting Vehicle) is Equipped with automatic armed turrets can fire from inside the car. Developed from First Win II..
The First Win RV (Reconnaissance Vehicle) is Introduced in 2019 at the 2019 Navy Training, it equipped M134 on top of a vehicle. And proposed to the Royal Thai Army to consider as a reconnaissance vehicle for infantry. Developed from First Win II..
The AV4 Lipanbara is License built by DefTech for Malaysian Armed Forces and Royal Malaysian Police..
The Hanuman is Version made by Indonesia..

Here is System information for the First Win Thai 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Alternative Designation is First Win.
The Type is Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP).
The Manufacturer is Chaiseri Metal and Rubber Co., Ltd. (Thailand)
DefTech (Malaysia).
The Configuration is 4x4.
The Crew is 1.
The Passengers is 10.
The Payload Capacity is 2,000 kg.

Here is Dimensions information for the First Win Thai 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Length is 6.2 m.
The Width is 2.45 m.
The Height is 2.85 m.
The Weight, Standard is 11,500 kg.
The Weight, Combat is 13,500 kg.
The Ground Clearance is 0.49 m.
The Wheelbase is 3.47 m.

Here is Automotive information for the First Win Thai 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Engine Name is Cummins ISBe300E4.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 300 hp at 2,850 rpm.
The Power-to-Weight Ratio is 23 hp/t.
The Fuel Capacity is 200 liters.
The Maximum Speed is 110 km/h.
The Maximum Range is 800 km.
The Amphibious is No.
The Angle of Approach is 38°.
The Angle of Departure is 40°.
The Gradient is 60%.
The Side Slope is 40%.
The Vertical Obstacle is 0.5 m.
The Trench is 0.9 m.
The Turning Radius is 9.2 m.

Here is Main Weapon System information for the First Win Thai 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Note is The primary armament of the First Win is installed on the roof hatch in the centre of the roof. This can be armed either with a swivel-mounted MG or a protected weapon station. Both options would likely be armed with a 7.62 mm or 12.7 mm MG. If required, the vehicle could be armed with an ROWS or turret to provide increased protection to the crew whilst operating the weapon. The vehicle is also fitted with an array of firing ports so that the embarked personnel can use their personal weapons..

Here is Protection information for the First Win Thai 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Hull Armor is The First Win is built on a V-shaped monocoque hull that is built from welded steel and at its base level protects against ballistic threats to the STANAG 4569 Level 1+..
The Applique Armor is Available.
The Mine Protection is Mine protection is stated to be at STANAG 4569 Level 2 a/b. Both can be increased to Level 3 through the addition of ceramic armours or other passive systems as required by the customer..
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

