This document describes the Sang-O Class North Korean Diesel-Electric Submarine.

The Sang-o-class coastal submarine is smaller than Romeo- and Whiskey-class subs, but larger than a midget submarine. It is apparently intended for use in coastal defense missions, minelaying and special forces insertion. The name Sang-o is a Korean word meaning shark. It was given to the submarine by Western intelligence agencies. The actual North Korea class name is unknown.
Examinations of a special forces transport version reveal a crude design with poor manufacturing quality. The captured variant did not have any torpedo tubes, but instead had 16 mine or external cargo-carrying fixtures, eight per side. Another variant reportedly does carry torpedo tubes.

Reportedly built at Singpo beginning in 1991 at a rate of four to six per year. Only three were built in 1997 when construction halted. Two submarines, both reportedly in extremely poor condition, were sold to Vietnam in 1996. The Vietnamese ships were last reported to be undergoing reconditioning at Cam Ranh Bay naval base.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea).

Here is Variants information for the Sang-O Class North Korean Diesel-Electric Submarine:
The Note is There is no list of the names of each Sang-O Class Submarine. 
In Total there are 40 Sang-O Class Submarines operating in North Korea..

Here is System information for the Sang-O Class North Korean Diesel-Electric Submarine:
The Alternative designations is SHARK.
The Type is Coastal Submarine.
The Total Built is 40 Sang-O Class Submarines in Total operating within North Korea.
The Builder is Bong Dao Bo Shipyards, Singpo.
The Crew is 19 in torpedo version 11 crew and 15 troops in special forces version,.

Here is Dimensions information for the Sang-O Class North Korean Diesel-Electric Submarine:
The Length is 35.5 m.
The Beam is 3.8 m.
The Draft is 3.2 m.
The Displacement, Surface is 295 tons.
The Displacement, Submerged is 325 tons.

Here is Automotive information for the Sang-O Class North Korean Diesel-Electric Submarine:
The Engine is 1 x diesel electric generator set.
The Engine Power is 300 bhp est.
The Propeller is single shrouded.
The Surface Speed is 14.1.
The Snorkeling Speed is 13.3.
The Submerged Speed is 16.5.
The Maximum Range is 5,000 km.

Here is Weapon Station #1 information for the Sang-O Class North Korean Diesel-Electric Submarine of the Armament:
The Name is 53-65KE Torpedoes.
The Type is Type 53 torpedo.
The Basic Load is INA.
The Length is 7.2 m.
The Diameter is 533 mm.
The Weight is 2,070–2,300 kg.
The Operational Range is 18,000 meters.
The Speed is 83 km/h.
The Warhead is 307.6 kilograms (678 lb) high explosive.
The Guidance System is Wake homing.

Here is Sensors information for the Sang-O Class North Korean Diesel-Electric Submarine:
The Radar is 1 x Furuno navigation.
The Sonar is 1 x passive array only.

