This document describes the IMR-2M Russian Heavy Combat Engineering Vehicle.

A simplified model of IMR-2 without the mine-clearing system. Entered service in 1987. The purpose of the IMR-2M obstacle-clearing vehicle is to provide for the free movement of troops across. zones of destruction, including areas affected by nuclear attacks. Based on the chassis of the T-72A tank, the vehicle mounts the following equipment: a versatile dozer blade, a telescoping boom furnished with a multipurpose attachment, and a mine dredger, type KMT. The IMR-2M obstacle-clearing vehicle is noted for an 80-fold attenuation of gamma radiation.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: CFE Treaty, Russian Federation.

Here is Variants information for the IMR-2M Russian Heavy Combat Engineering Vehicle:
The IMR is First version of combat engineering vehicle built on T-54/55 medium battle tank chassis, powered by a V-55 diesel engine developing 520 hp..
The IMR-2M1 is Simplified model without the mine-clearing system. Entered service in 1982. Based on T-72A tank hull..
The IMR-2M2 is Improved version that is better suited for operations in dangerous situations, for example in contaminated areas. It entered service in 1990 and has a modified crane arm with bucket instead off the pincers..
The IMR-2MA is Latest version with bigger operator's cabin armed with a 12.7 mm machine gun NSV..
The Klin-1 is Remote controlled IMR-2.
The IMR-3M is Combat engineering vehicle built on the T-90 main battle tank chassis. The vehicle is 9,320 mm long, 3,500 mm wide and 3,430 mm high and weighs 49.5 t with the KMT-RZ minesweeping device. The IMR-3M is powered by an 840-hp V-84MS multifuel diesel engine, producing a maximum speed of 60 km/h and a range of 500 km. The baseline AEV is fitted with a U-type dozer blade, jib-type crane with an excavator bucket, and minesweeping plow. A chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear [CBRN] reconnaissance device, smokescreen generator, advanced signal suite and automatic fire extinguisher are fitted. The IMR-3M is armed with an NSVT 12.7 mm heavy machine gun [HMG] in a remotely controlled station. Production started in 2016 and is currently ongoing..

Here is Boom Specifications information for the IMR-2M Russian Heavy Combat Engineering Vehicle of the System:
The Height, Overall is INA.
The Length, Boom is 8.4 m.
The Length, Overall is INA.
The Width, Blade is INA.
The Width, Overall is INA.
The Boom Capacity is 2 tons.

Here is Automotive information for the IMR-2M Russian Heavy Combat Engineering Vehicle:
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 840.
The Fording Depth is 1.2.
The Range, Cruising is 500.
The Speed is 60.
The Speed , Average Cross is 8.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 60.
The Speed, Maximum Swim is 10.
The Vertical Step is INA.

Here is Radio information for the IMR-2M Russian Heavy Combat Engineering Vehicle of the Communications:
The Name is R-173.

Here is Intercom information for the IMR-2M Russian Heavy Combat Engineering Vehicle of the Communications:
The Name is R-174.

Here is System information for the IMR-2M Russian Heavy Combat Engineering Vehicle of the Main Weapon System:
The Name is 1 x PKT 7.62mm General-Purpose Machine Gun.
The Type is General-Purpose Machine Gun.
The Caliber is 7.62.
The Muzzle Velocity is INA.
The Range, Maximum Effective, Day is 1,000.
The Range, Maximum Effective, On the Move is 450.
The Range, Maximum Effective, Night is 800.
The Sights is Iron Sights.

Here is Protection information for the IMR-2M Russian Heavy Combat Engineering Vehicle:
The Active Protection System is INA.
The Armor, Applique is Available.
The Armor, Explosive Reactive is No.
The Armor, Turret Front is INA.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Protection is Protection from small arms fire and projectile splinters.
The Smoke Equipment is Yes.
The Survivability Equipment is INA.

