This document describes the HZQL51 (HZ 51m) Chinese Fast Heavy Support Bridge (HSB).

The HZQL51 (HZ 51m) Chinese Fast Heavy Support Bridge (HSB) is mainly composed of four parts including bridge equipment, erection vehicle, transportation vehicle, and safeguard the vehicle. The whole bridge is constituted by the connection of different bridge sections which include the bridge span and guide beam. push the guide beam to the opposite bank by using the weight balance of the bridge and election vehicle, and then push the bridge to the opposite bank along the guide beam to complete the bridge erection

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is System information for the HZQL51 (HZ 51m) Chinese Fast Heavy Support Bridge (HSB):
The Alternative Designation is HZ 51m; HZQL51.
The Type is Fast Heavy Support Bridge (HSB).
The Manufacturer is CHINA HARZONE INDUSTRY CORP., LTD.
The Crew is 3 to 4 men (excluding drivers).
The Composition is The HZ 51m (HZQL51) Chinese Fast Heavy Support Bridge (HSB) is mainly composed of four parts including bridge equipment, erection vehicle, transportation vehicle, and safeguard the vehicle. The whole bridge is constituted by the connection of different bridge sections which include the bridge span and guide beam. push the guide beam to the opposite bank by using the weight balance of the bridge and election vehicle, and then push the bridge to the opposite bank along the guide beam to complete the bridge erection..
The Transportation Vehicle Name is The chassis of the transportation vehicle adopts the Cross-country chassis sx2190 manufactured by Shaanxi Automobile Group co., Ltd..
The Erection Vehicle Name is The chassis of the erection vehicle adopts modified heavy cross-country chassisSX2300C made by Shaanxi Automobile Group Co. Ltd..
The Erection Time (Complete Bridge) is 75 min.
The Retrieval Time (Complete Bridge) is 75 min.

Here is Dimensions (Erection Vehicle) information for the HZQL51 (HZ 51m) Chinese Fast Heavy Support Bridge (HSB) of the Dimensions:
The Length is 3.3 m.
The Width is 3.2 m.
The Height is 3.6 m.
The Weight is 33 tons.

Here is Dimensions (Transportation Vehicle) information for the HZQL51 (HZ 51m) Chinese Fast Heavy Support Bridge (HSB) of the Dimensions:
The Length is 3.3 m.
The Width is 3.4 m.
The Height is 3.1 m.
The Weight is 19 tons.

Here is Bridging System information for the HZQL51 (HZ 51m) Chinese Fast Heavy Support Bridge (HSB):
The Bridge Functions is The widen board is in folded condition during transportation. Each guide beam is inserted into the corresponding bridge section for the convenience of integrated transportation and lifting. During operation, the lifting of the bridge between the transportation vehicle and erection vehicle is accomplished by the crane on the erection vehicle. The oil for the hydraulic system is supplied by the erection vehicle to accomplish bolt connection between bridges..
The Bridge Composition is The bridge equipment is the direct load-bearing component to ensure the designed vehicles passing through the obstacles. One set of bridge equipment is composed of 4 middle bridge spans, 2 end bridge spans, 4 middle guide beams, 2 end guide beams, widen board, ramp, and hydraulic system..
The Bridge Span is The bridge span is divided into middle and end bridge span. The end bridge span also is divided into end bridge span with bolts and end bridge span without bolts, which are all three-chord trusses. The six longitudinal chords are the main bearing components of the two groups of three-stringed steel truss. The upper double and three ear connectors are welded at the ends of the upper chord. Single and double ear connectors for group bolts are welded at the end of the bottom chord. Two three-chord trusses are connected by a transversal chord and form the main structure of the bridge body. The joints between bridge spans are connected by hydraulic bolts. A Roller system is set up inside the bottom chord of the bridge span to accomplish the erection of a built-in guide beam and fixation during transportation.
The Hydraulic System is The bridge hydraulic system includes a double-joint control valve, bridge
span hydraulic system, guide beam hydraulic system, and support leg hydraulic system, The bridge span bolt and guide beam bolt are powered by the erection vehicle through fast connectors and controlled by a manual valve. The bolts of the bridge span and guide beam cooperate with the erection vehicle to accomplish the connection and fixation between the bridge span and the guide beam. The guide beam support leg is powered by the manual pump to accomplish the support and retrieval operation.
The Bridge Erection Length is 17 m, 25.5 rn, 34 m, 42.5 m, 51 m.
The Bridge Width is 4 m.
The Weight of Single Bridge Span is 8.5 tons.
The Tracked Loading Capacity is 60 tons.
The Speed of Tracked Loading is Less than 15 km/h.
The Wheeled (Load on Axle) Capacity is 13 tons.
The Speed of Wheeled Loading is Less than 30 km/h.
The Bridge Service Life is 10,000 times.
The Negotiating Depth is + 3 m.
The Erection Maximum Longitudinal Gradient is 10%.
The Erection Maximum Transverse Gradient is 5%.
The Maximum Wind Grade is Grade 6.
The Erection Time (Complete Bridge) is 75 min.
The Retrieval Time (Complete Bridge) is 75 min.

Here is Automotive  (Transportation Vehicle) information for the HZQL51 (HZ 51m) Chinese Fast Heavy Support Bridge (HSB):
The Engine Name is WD615.44.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 235kw (2200r/min).
The Minimum Turning Diameter is 24 m.
The Maximum Fording Depth is 700 mm.
The Ground Clearance is 300 mm.
The Approach Angle is 21 Deg.
The Departure Angle is 23 Deg.
The Maximum Gradeability is 60%.

Here is Protection information for the HZQL51 (HZ 51m) Chinese Fast Heavy Support Bridge (HSB):
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is No.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

