This document describes the HJ-12 (Red Arrow 12) Chinese Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM).

The Hongjian-12 ( literally: 'Red Arrow-12') is a third generation, man-portable, fire-and-forget infrared homing anti-tank missile of China. It was unveiled at the Eurosatory 2014 exhibition. Chinese equivalent of the Spike.

The HJ-12 is a modern, third generation anti-tank missile developed by China North Industries Corporation (NORINCO). The HJ-12 is a fire-and-forget system utilizing Lock-On Before Launch (LOBL) and is capable of being fired within buildings and bunkers due to its soft launch system. Once launched, it will home autonomously onto its target, allowing the operator to immediately take cover or reload to engage another target. The warhead uses a tandem shaped charge design with an estimated penetration capability of up to 1,100 mm (43 in) of rolled homogeneous armour (RHA) after penetrating explosive reactive armor. When facing non-armored point targets, bunkers and fortifications, the missile can be fitted with either high-explosive or thermal effect warheads. Its fire-and-forget technology will reduce the number of anti-tank operators needed on a battlefield, which lowers probable casualties. When engaging enemy tanks and armored vehicles, the HJ-12 aims to destroy the top of its targets, the more vulnerable point. 

The HJ-12 is China's first portable anti-tank missile, increasing the ability of the People's Liberation Army Ground Force to have more modern and mobile infantry forces. It is intended to enable China to match up with anti-tank missile developments made by Western defense companies, like the FGM-148 Javelin and Spike. The missile is also available for export to armies in developing countries that would need to contend with third-generation main battle tanks, but the number of potential buyers is likely small due to its higher cost

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Algeria, China, Nigeria.

Here is System information for the HJ-12 (Red Arrow 12) Chinese Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The Alternative Designation is HJ-12; Red Arrow 12.
The Type is Fire and Forget Anti-Tank Guided Missile.
The Crew is 2.
The Displacement Time is Less than 2 min.
The Emplacement Time is Less than 2 min.
The Prime Mover Required is No.
The Man Portable is Yes, The HJ-12 is a man-portable weapon. It is shoulder-fired but can also be installed on the tripod or tracked and wheeled armor vehicles..
The Reload Time is 15 seconds.
The Note is The HJ-12 is one of the most advanced man-portable anti-tank guide missile system in the world today. It can destroyed any current main battle tank. It can also engage bunkers, small boats and low-flying helicopters..

Here is Dimensions information for the HJ-12 (Red Arrow 12) Chinese Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The Launcher Tube Length is 1.2 m.
The Command Launch Unit (CLU) Weight is 6.5 kg.

Here is Missile information for the HJ-12 (Red Arrow 12) Chinese Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The Name is HJ-12 Missile.
The Type is Anti-Tank Guided Missile.
The Missile Length is 1.1 m.
The Missile Diameter is 0.13 m.
The Fin Span is INA.
The Missile Weight is 13 kg.
The Warhead Type is Tandem HEAT.
The Warhead Weight is INA.
The Guidance System is Infrared imaging or TV imaging.
The Range of Fire is 2.5 km.
The Armor Penetration is 800 mm.

Here is Fire Control information for the HJ-12 (Red Arrow 12) Chinese Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is Yes.
The Guidance System is Infrared imaging or TV imaging.
The Direct Fire is Yes.
The Note is This Chinese anti-tank missile adopts an infrared imaging seeker or a TV imaging seeker for all-weather day-and-night fire..

