This document describes the Piranha Ukrainian Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV).

The Piranha Ukrainian Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV)  is designed for combat use but can also fulfil other roles.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Ukraine.

Here is System information for the Piranha Ukrainian Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV):
The Alternative Designation is Piranha.
The Type is Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).
The Manufacturer is Ukroboronprom.
The Configuration is Tracked.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Operator is The vehicle is controlled by an operator control unit that has a daylight readable display..
The Sensors is The Piranha will be fitted with an Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) payload, which will include the Anti-Sniper. The Anti-Sniper is a sensor system designed for surveillance tasks and for countering snipers..
The Software is A number of autonomous capabilities are available, such as return to base (especially in loss of communication with the operator), follow me, and waypoint navigation..

Here is Dimensions information for the Piranha Ukrainian Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV):
The Length is 1.5 m.
The Width is 0.98 m.
The Height is 0.50 m.
The Wheelbase is 100 mm.
The Weight, Combat is 100 kg.
The Ground Clearance is 190 mm.

Here is Automotive information for the Piranha Ukrainian Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Battery.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Amphibious is No.
The Maximum Speed is 25 km/h.
The Operating Distance is 20 km power reserve.
The Maximum Gradient is 30°.
The Side Slope is 25°.
The Endurance is INA.

Here is Communications information for the Piranha Ukrainian Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV):
The Note is The Piranha can operate via a secure radio link or fibre cable..

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Piranha Ukrainian Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV):
The Note is In its combat configuration, the platform has been fitted with a stabilized rotating platform to mount various weapon types. This includes a 12.7 mm heavy machine gun (MG) NVST, which is capable of firing at distances of 1 km and can traverse 360°. A 7.62 mm PKT or 40 mm grenade launcher UAG-40, which has a range of between 2 and 10 km, can also be incorporated..

Here is Protection information for the Piranha Ukrainian Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV):
The Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is INA.

