This document describes the Tondar-69 Iranian Close-Range Ballistic Missile.

The Iranian CSS-8 (M-7) is a close-range, solid-fueled, ballistic missile. It is believed Iran acquired 200 of the CSS-8 (M-7) from China in the late 1980s.  Iran later renamed the system Tondar-69. 
Although the CSS-8 (M-7) entered into service in 1992, it may soon become obsolete as less than 100 of the missiles are in operation since only 20 tracked launcher vehicles are in service. Furthermore, the system is reported to have poor accuracy.
Reports indicate that Iranian leaders were unsatisfied with the missile, with most pointing to its poor accuracy, as mentioned above, and light warhead.  Iran subsequently began the development of the Fateh-110 SRBM, which also uses solid fuel.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China, Iran (Islamic Republic of).

Here is System information for the Tondar-69 Iranian Close-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Alternate Designation is Tondar-69; CSS-8, M-7; Thunder 69.
The Country of Origin is China.
The Basing is TEL.
The Guidance System is Inertial navigation system (INS) guidance with command updates..
The Launch Platform(s) is Towed TEL.
The Effective Range is 150.
The Circular Error Probability is 300.

Here is Dimensions information for the Tondar-69 Iranian Close-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Length is 10.8.
The Missile Weight is 2,650.
The Diameter is 0.65 m (first stage), 0.5 m (second stage).
The Fin Span is INA.

Here is Payload information for the Tondar-69 Iranian Close-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Warhead Type is Single.
The Warhead Options is Conventional and Nuclear.
The Nuclear Yield is INA.
The Conventional Warhead Weight is 190.
The Conventional Warheads Available is HE.
The Multiple Independently targetable Reentry Vehicle (MIRV) Capable is No.

Here is Propulsion Characteristics information for the Tondar-69 Iranian Close-Range Ballistic Missile:
The Engine is 2 Stage.
The Propellant is Solid for first stage, liquid for second.
The Speed is INA.
The Flight Ceiling is INA.
The Attack Altitude is NA.

