This document describes the Peresvet Russian Mobile Laser System.

The Peresvet Russian Mobile Laser System  is a mobile laser system first revealed in Russian President Vladimir Putin’s annual address to the Russian parliament on 1 March 2018. Later that March Russia’s deputy minister of defence said that the system was in operation in 2017 and employs a small nuclear power source.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is System information for the Peresvet Russian Mobile Laser System:
The Alternative Designation is Peresvet.
The Type is Mobile Laser System.
The Manufacturer is INA.
The Crew is INA.
The Chassis is INA.
The Mission is The Peresvet combat laser can be successfully used against unmanned aerial vehicles. At the same time, its effectiveness directly depends on environmental conditions: in good weather, it works perfectly, but fog, rain, snow and other adverse weather events can interfere with the passage of the laser beam..
The Note #1 is Little is known about the laser system, first revealed during Russian President Vladimir Putin's address to the federal assembly on 1 March 2018. It is expected to be an air-defense system that can track and shoot down hostile aircraft and missiles. Some suggest it will be tasked with "blinding" sophisticated enemy systems, making them inoperable..
The Note #2 is Details about Peresvet are lacking, including: We have no idea how it finds targets, the wattage output of the laser (the U.S. Army expects to field a 50-kilowatt laser weapon in 2023) or even what the targets are. What it is destined to shoot is ultimately a function of its power—a lower-powered laser would only be useful for burning small drones and blinding electro-optical devices (including human eyeballs), while a more powerful laser would be dangerous to larger drones and small manned aircraft..

Here is Dimensions information for the Peresvet Russian Mobile Laser System:
The Note is The Peresvet complexes are deployed within unique tent structures. The 30 x 30 m tent has an 11 x 6 m extension mounted on rails, enabling the Peresvet laser to be exposed while the vehicle remains in the hangar. The tent appears to be similar in material and construction style to those employed by Iskander-M tactical missile units for launcher storage. Two other structures are also present, likely serving as crew accommodation or additional storage..

Here is Automotive information for the Peresvet Russian Mobile Laser System:
The Chassis is INA.

