This document describes the Bushmaster Australian 4x4 Protected Mobility Vehicle.

The Bushmaster Protected Mobility Vehicle or Infantry Mobility Vehicle is an Australian-built four-wheel-drive armored vehicle. The Bushmaster was primarily designed by the then government-owned Australian Defence Industries (ADI), and is currently produced by Thales Australia with a support contract provided by Oshkosh Truck following the acquisition of ADI. The Bushmaster is currently in service with the Australian Army, Royal Australian Air Force, Royal Netherlands Army, British Army, Japan Ground Self Defense Force, Fiji Infantry Regiment, Jamaica Defence Force, and the New Zealand Army.

The role of the Bushmaster is to provide protected mobility transport (or protected troop lift capability), with infantry dismounting from the vehicle before going into action. As the Bushmaster is only lightly armored, the term Infantry Mobility Vehicle (IMV) was initially adopted to distinguish it from a heavier wheeled or tracked armored personnel carrier, such as the ASLAV and M113 also in Australian service. Later the Bushmaster's designation was changed to Protected Mobility Vehicle (PMV).

The Bushmaster is optimized for operations in northern Australia and is capable of carrying up to 9 soldiers and their equipment, fuel, and supplies for 3 days, depending on the type of variant. The vehicle is fitted with air conditioning and was once planned to have a cool water drinking system, but was omitted upon production due to cost constraints. After operational complaints, the drinking water cooling system is being reconsidered for installation. It has a road cruise speed of 100 km/h and an operational range of 800 km.

The Bushmaster is a mine-protected vehicle and provides a high degree of protection against land mines, using its v-hull monocoque to deflect the blast away from the vehicle and its occupants. The vehicle's armor provides protection against small arms of up to 7.62 mm ball ammunition, 81mm mortar fragments, Claymore mines, and with additional applique armor, protection for armor-piercing ammunition of up to 7.62mm. The fuel and hydraulic tanks of the vehicle are located outside the crew compartment, while it also has an automatic fire suppression system. The troop carrier variant of the Bushmaster is fitted with one gun ring. The forward gun ring can be fitted with a 5.56 mm or 7.62 mm machine gun. The two rear hatches each have a mounting boss to allow the attachment of a swing mount capable of holding a 7.62 mm machine gun.

The Bushmaster is air transportable by C-130 Hercules, C-17 Globemaster III, and Mil Mi-26 aircraft. It is the first armored vehicle to be designed and completely manufactured in Australia since the Sentinel tank during World War II.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Australia, Fiji, Indonesia, Jamaica, Japan, Netherlands, New Zealand.

Here is Variants information for the Bushmaster Australian 4x4 Protected Mobility Vehicle:
The Planned Variants is ADI (now Thales Australia) planned at least six variants. These included an armored ambulance; command vehicle; mortar carrier with internally mounted 81-mm or 120-mm weapon; fire support vehicle with 12.7-mm machine gun and 40-mm automatic grenade launcher; engineering vehicle; and firefighting vehicle..
The Bushmaster ambulance is This variant can transport two stretchered patients, or one stretchered and four seated patients at one time. They are equipped with the latest medical equipment and provide protection against blasts and ballistic threats..
The Bushmaster EOD is The Bushmaster explosive ordinance disposal (EOD) variant is fitted with a 27 ft 11 in (8.5 m) interrogator arm with a 225-degree arc of operation around the front of the vehicle. The arm can be installed onto any existing Bushmaster vehicle to modify it into an EOD variant. The two-piece articulated arm can include the following attachments: interrogation tool with clasp claw; work light; camera; detection equipment; and proximity detector. The vehicle can also be fitted with a roller clearance system that is hydraulically operated, steerable and easily attached and released. An EOD robot can also be stored internally ..
The Bushmaster combat support vehicle is Thales Australia privately developed a prototype Bushmaster combat support vehicle in 2005. It was previously known as the Copperhead . This 4 x 4 vehicle features the Bushmaster cab at the front, with a flat-bed cargo area at the rear, which can carry up to 11,000 lb (5,000 kg) of cargo. The cargo area measures 101 sq ft (9.4 sq m). Upgradeable ballistic protection options are available for the crew cabin.
The vehicle has a top speed of 60 mph (100 km/h) and a maximum range of 500 mi (800 km). It also offers high clearance for obstacles, tight turning circle and the ability to travel off-road in all conditions, according to the manufacturer.

A dual-cab variant, offered for the British operational utility vehicle system (OUVS) program, featured a larger interior cabin with room for two crew and up to six passengers with four side-opening passenger doors and a flatbed area of 54 sq ft (5 sq m) and a 6,600-lb (3,000-kg) payload..
The Bushmaster 6 x 6 is Thales Australia has conducted studies of a 6 x 6 version of the Bushmaster, which would have a gross vehicle weight of up to 25.6 tons..

Here is System information for the Bushmaster Australian 4x4 Protected Mobility Vehicle:
The Alternative Designation is Bushmaster.
The Type is Protected Mobility Vehicle.
The Manufacturer is Thales Australia (formerly ADI).
The Configuration is 4x4.
The Crew is 2 (commander, driver).
The Passenger Capacity is 8 troops.
The Air Transport Capability is The Bushmaster is air transportable by C-130 Hercules, C-17 Globemaster III and Mil Mi-26 aircraft..

Here is Dimensions information for the Bushmaster Australian 4x4 Protected Mobility Vehicle:
The Length, Overall is 6.60 m.
The Length, Hull is 7.09 m.
The Height is 2.65 m.
The Width is 2.50 m.
The Cabin Volume is 11.2 cubic m.
The Ground Clearance, Hull is 0.43 m.
The Ground Clearance, Axle Housings is 0.40 m.
The Wheel Track is 2.10 m.
The Wheel Base is 3.90 m.
The Weight, Unloaded is 12,500 kg.
The Weight, Combat is 15,000 kg.
The Weight, Payload is 2,500 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Bushmaster Australian 4x4 Protected Mobility Vehicle:
The Engine Name is 1 x Caterpillar 3126 ATAAC.
The Engine Type is 6-cylinder turbocharged air-to-air after-cooled diesel.
The Engine Power is 300 hp at 2,400 rpm with 25 percent torque rise.
The Transmission is ZF 7HP502 full automatic with front-end retarder for controlled slope 
descent.
The Fuel Capacity is 319 Liters.
The Tires is 395/85 R20 with bead locks or optional run-flat inserts.
The Inflation System is optional dual-channel with dash-mounted push button control, providing
4 settings highway, sand, mud/snow and emergency.
The Brakes is dual circuit Meritor air-operated disc brakes assisted by a hydraulic
 retarder.
The Suspension is AxleTech 4000 series coil spring with short-long-arm wishbone and
 double-acting hydraulic shock-absorbers, bump-stop rubbers.
The Axles is Arvin Meritor/Timoney 4000 series independent suspension axle system,
7,700-kg capacity with diff locks front, center and rear.
The Speed, Road is 100 km/h.
The Range is 800 km.
The Vertical Obstacle is 0.50 m.
The Fording is 1.20 m w/out preparation.
The Gradient is 60.
The Side Slope is 40.
The Approach Angle is 40.
The Departure Angle is 38.
The Turning Circle is 18.6 m.

Here is System information for the Bushmaster Australian 4x4 Protected Mobility Vehicle of the Main Gun:
The Name is 1 x M2 Browning 12.7mm Heavy Machine Gun.
The Type is Heavy Machine Gun.
The Caliber is 12.7 mm.
The Length is 1,654 mm.
The Barrel Length is 1,143 mm.
The Weight is 38 kg.
The Action is Short recoil-operated.
The Rate of Fire is 450–600 rounds/min.
The Muzzle Velocity is 890 m/s.
The Maximum Firing Range is 7,400 m.
The Effective Firing Range is 1,800 m.
The Feed System is Belt-fed (M2 or M9 links).

Here is Ammunition information for the Bushmaster Australian 4x4 Protected Mobility Vehicle of the Main Gun:
The Type is Rifle.
The Caliber is 12.7.
The Cartridge is 12.7×99mm.
The Basic Load is 1,200 rounds.

Here is Auxiliary Weapon System information for the Bushmaster Australian 4x4 Protected Mobility Vehicle:
The Note is Manned swing mounts up to 7.62mm (one front and two rear).

Here is Fire Control information for the Bushmaster Australian 4x4 Protected Mobility Vehicle:
The Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is No.
The Thermal Sight Vehicle Commander is INA.
The Thermal Sight Gunner is INA.

Here is Protection information for the Bushmaster Australian 4x4 Protected Mobility Vehicle:
The Hull Armor is The Bushmaster is a mine-protected vehicle and provides a high degree of protection against land mines, using its v-hull monocoque to deflect the blast away from the vehicle and its occupants. The vehicle's armor provides protection against small arms of up to 7.62 mm ball ammunition, 81mm mortar fragments, Claymore mines, and with additional applique armor, protection for armor-piercing ammunition of up to 7.62mm..
The Turret Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is INA.
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is INA.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is No.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is 8 x grenade launchers (bank of 4 on each side of vehicle hull).

