This document describes the Type 87 Japanese 6x6 Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle.

The Type 87 Japanese 6 x 6 Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle developed for use by the Japan Ground Self-Defense Force. Approximately 80% of its components can be found on the Type 82 Command and Control C2 Vehicle.  The vehicle is built by Komatsu, Minato-Ku, Japan.

The Type 87 has an independent suspension with coil springs and hydropneumatic shock dampers at each wheel. The all-welded steel construction of the hull protects the crew from 7.62mm rounds and shrapnel.

The crew consists of 5 individuals 5 (Commander, Driver, Gunner, Assistant Diver/Radio Operator, Observer)

The vehicle driver position is located on the right front of the vehicle with a single-piece hatch overhead that opens to the right. The drivers position also has an integral periscope in the hatch along with three periscopes fixed forward. One of the periscopes cab be replaced with a passive night scope for observation. Another crewman (serving as the assistant driver/radio operator) sits on the left front side of the vehicle with a single-piece hatch overhead that opens to the left. He has one forward-facing periscope for observation.

The commander sits on the right and the gunner on the left of a power operated turret centered on top of the vehicle. The gunners position is equipped with a day/night sight and an observation periscope. The commanders position has six day periscopes and a roof-mounted sight. A storage box sits behind the commander and gunner in the turret. An Oerlikon Contraves 25-mm KBA connon and a 7.62-mm coaxial machinegun are mounted in the turret. Both weapons are capable of firing standard NATO ammunition.

The observer sits in the left rear of the vehicle with a single rear-looking periscope. The observer enters and exits the vehicle through a door in the rear of the hull on the left side.

There are additional entry doors (both opening forward) on the left and right sides of the hull between the second and third axles. Both doors are equipped with a single observation block.

The engine is located on the right side of the rear of the hull. The exhaust outlet is located on the rear right and vents for the engine is accomplished through louvers in the roof.

The vehicle is equipped with a central tire-inflation system, power steering, and passive night vision equipment. The central tire inflation system enables the vehicle tire pressure to be adjusted on the move to improve mobility in difficult off-road terrain. 

The Type 87 is not amphibious.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Japan.

Here is Variants information for the Type 87 Japanese 6x6 Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Type 87 NBC Reconnaissance is The Type 87 NBC Reconnaissance Vehicle has NBC detectors at the rear of the vehicle..

Here is System information for the Type 87 Japanese 6x6 Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Alternative Designation is Type 87 Burakkuai.
The Type is 6x6 Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle (ARV).
The Manufacturer is Komatsu, Minato-Ku, Japan.
The Crew is 5 (Commander, Driver, Gunner, Assistant Diver/Radio Operator, Observer).
The Passenger Capacity is N/A.

Here is Dimensions information for the Type 87 Japanese 6x6 Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Length is 5.99 m.
The Width is 2.48 m.
The Height is 2.80 m.
The Wheelbase is INA.
The Ground Clearance is 0.45m.
The Combat Weight is 15,000 kg.
The Unloaded Weight is INA.

Here is Automotive information for the Type 87 Japanese 6x6 Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Engine Name is Isuzu 10PBI.
The Engine Type is 10 cylinder water-cooled diesel.
The Engine Power is 305 hp at 2,700 rpm.
The Fuel Capacity is INA.
The Suspension is An independent suspension with coil springs and hydropneumatic shock dampers at each wheel..
The Transmission is Automatic gearbox with 6 forward gears and 1 reverse gear..
The Range is 500 km at 100 kph.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 100.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is N/A.
The Vertical Obstacle is 0.60 m.
The Obstacle Trench is 1.50 m.
The Fording is 1.0 m.
The Gradient is 60 %.
The Side Slope is 30 %.

Here is Main Gun information for the Type 87 Japanese 6x6 Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Primary is 1 x  25-mm Oerlikon Contraves KBA Cannon.
The Coaxial MG is 1 x 7.62 machine gun.

Here is Protection information for the Type 87 Japanese 6x6 Armored Reconnaissance Vehicle:
The Hull Armor is The all-welded steel construction of the hull protects the crew from 7.62mm rounds and shrapnel. 8-mm rolled homogenous armor..
The Turret Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is Available.
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is No.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The NBC Protection is No.
The Smoke Equipment is 2 x 4 smoke grenade launchers, one on each side of the turret.
The Night Vision is Passive.

