This document describes the BZK-700 (Sunshine) Chinese Medium-Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

BZK-007 is the military version of Sunshine UAV adopted by the Chinese military. The only external visual difference between BZK-007 and Sunshine is that BZK-007 has a fixed tricycle landing gear system. The weight and space saved from the elimination of the retractable landing gear system can be used either for additional payload or fuel, so BZK-007 has a slightly increased range and payload capacity than its civilian counterpart. PLAAF use it as tactical reconnaissance UAV carrying variety of equipment including FLIR, CCD TV cameras and remote sensors.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is Variants information for the BZK-700 (Sunshine) Chinese Medium-Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The BZK-005 (Giant Eagle) is . BZK-005 was developed by BUAA and Harbin Aviation Industrial Group (HAIG) in early 2000s as a medium/high altitude long range reconnaissance UAV for strategic missions..

Here is System information for the BZK-700 (Sunshine) Chinese Medium-Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is BZK-007.
The Type is Medium-Altitude Long-Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is Harbin Aircraft Industry (Group) Co., Ltd..
The Mission is The BZK-007’s current role is confined to intelligence gathering..
The Maximum Payload is 100 kg max.
The Note is It can carry a variety of equipment including FLIR, CCD TV camera, as well as remote sensors of different spectral bands. Most EO sensors are located inside a turret underneath the fuselage right behind the wing section. A SATCOM antenna inside a large dorsal bulge provides real-time transmission of data and commands between the UAV and the ground control station..

Here is Dimensions information for the BZK-700 (Sunshine) Chinese Medium-Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is 7.7 m.
The Wingspan is 14.6 m.
The Height is 2.74 m.
The Maximum Take Off Weight is 700 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the BZK-700 (Sunshine) Chinese Medium-Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is BZK-007 UAV is powered by a piston engine with a 3-blade propeller and is able to take off/land autonomously with retractable or non-retractable landing gears.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 230 km/h.
The Cruising Speed is 170 km/h.
The Maximum Distance is INA.
The Service Ceiling is 7.5 km.
The Endurance is 16 hours.

Here is Armament information for the BZK-700 (Sunshine) Chinese Medium-Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Note is The BZK-007’s current role is confined to intelligence gathering..

