This document describes the Wisent 1 (Bergpanzer Wisent) German Armored Recovery Vehicle.

The Wisent is an 8x8 armored logistics vehicle built by Rheinmetall. It is designed to be airlift able by the Airbus A400M.

It can be fitted with various modules, for cargo carrying, medical use, troop transport, and so on.

The Wisent can also be fitted with various weapons, including an RCWS.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Germany.

Here is Variants information for the Wisent 1 (Bergpanzer Wisent) German Armored Recovery Vehicle:
The Wisent 2 is The Wisent 2 armored engineer vehicle was developed by FFG of Germany. This vehicle was aimed to meet requirements of current operations and deployment scenarios in hotspot areas such as Afghanistan and Iraq. The FFG company has considerable experience in the upgrade and overhaul of various armored vehicles. The Wisent 2 is based on the Leopard 2 main battle tank. Development was completed somewhere in 2009..

Here is System information for the Wisent 1 (Bergpanzer Wisent) German Armored Recovery Vehicle:
The Alternative Designation is Wisent 1; Bergepanzer Wisent.
The Type is Armored Recovery Vehicle.
The Manufacturer is German FFG company as a private venture.
The Crew is 3.
The Bucket Capacity is 1.3 m³.
The Dig Depth is 4.4 m.
The Lifting Capacity is 30 t.
The Winch Capacity is 35 t.
The Towed Load is 50 t.
The Earth Working Capacity (Dozer) is 300 m³/h.
The Earth Working Capacity (Excavator Arm) is 300 m³/h.
The Front Mounted Dozer Blade is It can be used to clear obstacles and for earthmoving operations. It is also used as an earth anchor to stabilize the vehicle during craning, winching and excavating operations..
The ARV is In the ARV role the Wisent 1 can recover damaged, stuck, swamped or overturned combat vehicles on the battlefield. It also tows them to the nearest shelter, or maintenance unit. Vehicle can also provide maintenance service in the field. Crew of the Wisent 1 operate from under armor protection..

Here is Dimensions information for the Wisent 1 (Bergpanzer Wisent) German Armored Recovery Vehicle:
The Length is 8.2 m.
The Width is 3.5 m.
The Height is 3 m.
The Weight is 47 t.

Here is Automotive information for the Wisent 1 (Bergpanzer Wisent) German Armored Recovery Vehicle:
The Engine Name is MTU MB 838 Ca M500.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 960.
The Transmission is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 65 km/h.
The Range is 600 km.
The Gradient is 60%.
The Side Slope is 30%.
The Vertical Step is 0.7 m.
The Trench is 2.5 m.
The Fording is 1.2 m.

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Wisent 1 (Bergpanzer Wisent) German Armored Recovery Vehicle:
The Note is 1 x 12.7 mm (optional).

Here is Protection information for the Wisent 1 (Bergpanzer Wisent) German Armored Recovery Vehicle:
The Hull Armor is This multi-purpose combat vehicle has a level of protection, similar to that of the Leopard 1 main battle tank. Vehicle withstands blasts equivalent to 8 kg of TNT anywhere under the hull or under any track location. Interior is lined with a spall liner..
The Applique Armor is Available.
The Mine Clearing is Yes,  The Wisent 1 can be also reconfigured for mine clearing role. It can clear pathways through minefields, allowing assault units to pass, before enemy establishes defenses. For this role it can be fitted with a full-width mine plough and a safe lane marking system..
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is No.

