This document describes the Ka-31 (Helix) Russian Airborne Early Warning Helicopter.

The Kamov Ka-31 (NATO reporting name 'Helix') is a military helicopter originally developed for the Soviet Navy and currently in service in Russia, China, and India in the naval airborne early warning and control role.

As with all Kamov helicopters except the Ka-60/-62 family, the Ka-31 has co-axially mounted contra-rotating main rotors. The airframe of the Ka-31 is based on the Kamov Ka-27. One visually distinctive feature of the Ka-31 is the large antenna of the early-warning radar, which is either rotating or folded and stowed under the fuselage. The second is the reduction of the bulky electro-optical sensory suite beneath the cockpit. The landing gear retracts in order to prevent interference with the radar.

The Kamov Joint Stock Company (then, Kamov DB), began development of the Ka-31 medium-weight naval helicopter in 1980 and the first flight took place in 1987. This development was the direct result of the cancellation of the shipborne Antonov An-71 AWACS aircraft. The An-71 was intended to be deployed on the Soviet Navy's first true aircraft carrier, Admiral Kuznetsov (then known as Tbilisi). The An-71 was cancelled in favour of the Yakovlev Yak-44. Though Yak-44 was in development (and not yet cancelled) at that time, the Soviet Navy wanted a stop-gap measure and began investigating other viable platforms to act as AEW at sea.

The Soviet Navy selected the proven Kamov Ka-27 airframe. The Kamov Design Bureau was already in the process of developing the Ka-29. Nizhny Novgorod Radio Engineering Institute was working on a radar design to be used on the An-71; the same design was applied with changes for a rotary wing airframe. Integration was complete by 1980 and the helicopter was given the designation Ka-29RLD. The radar development took time and it was not until 1987 the first flight took place. The production version of the Ka-29RLD/-31 was very different from the Ka-29 from which it was derived.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China, India, Russian Federation.

Here is System information for the Ka-31 (Helix) Russian Airborne Early Warning Helicopter:
The Alternative Designation is Ka-31; NATO: Helix.
The Type is Airborne Early Warning Helicopter.
The Crew is 2.
The Mission is The main mission of the Ka-31 is a long-range detection airborne and naval threats. This helicopter can track targets over much larger horizon than ship's radars..
The Blades, Main Rotor is 2.
The Blades, Tail Rotor is Like other Kamov military helicopters it has coaxial rotors, removing the need for a tail rotor..
The Number of Engines is 2.
The Number of Hard Points is INA.
The Landing Gear is All four landing gear units are retractable.
The Data Link is datalink to transfer the target tracking data to the command post.
The GPS is Kronstadt Kabris 12-channel global positioning system.
The Communication Package is 16-channel digital communication gear with range up to 250 miles (400 km).
The Modifications is Some of the engineering changes from Ka-29 are the change in powerplant, the addition of the APUs and most importantly the secondary hydraulic system. The radar is the E-801M OKO ("EYE") planar array radar designed by the Nizhny Novgorod Radio Engineering Institute.

The operational variants delivered also had a Flight Information Recorder designed by the St.Petersburg/Leningrad Electrotechnical Institute, fitted in the tailcone. By the time the Yak-44 was canceled, additional responsibility of Command & control fell into the KA-29RLD/Ka-31's hands..

Here is Dimensions information for the Ka-31 (Helix) Russian Airborne Early Warning Helicopter:
The Length is 12.5 m.
The Main Rotor Diameter is 15.9 m.
The Height is 5.6 m.
The Weight, Empty is INA.
The Weight, Combat is 12.2 tons.

Here is Automotive information for the Ka-31 (Helix) Russian Airborne Early Warning Helicopter:
The Engine Name is 2 x Klimov TV3-117VMAR.
The Engine Type is Turboshaft.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Cruising Range is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 250 km/h.
The Maximum Range is 600 km.
The Service Ceiling is 3.5 km.
The Endurance is 2 hours 30 minutes.

Here is Radar information for the Ka-31 (Helix) Russian Airborne Early Warning Helicopter:
The Surveillance Radar is E-801E Oko (eye) surveillance radar.
The Radar Coverage is 360° coverage and can spot aircraft-size target from 150 km range..
The Radar, Surface Ship Identification Range is 100 - 200 km.
The Radar Targets is Radar can track 30-40 targets simultaneously.

Here is Protection information for the Ka-31 (Helix) Russian Airborne Early Warning Helicopter:
The Add on Armor is No.
The Stealth Properties is None.
The Heat Signature Reduction is No.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The EW Counter Measures/CCM is INA.
The Counter Measures (Chaff/Flares) is INA.

