This document describes the Orlan-10 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

Orlan-10 is a medium-range, multi-purpose unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) developed by Russian firm Special Technology Center LLC  in St Petersburg. The UAV is in service with the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation.

It is intended for a variety of missions including aerial reconnaissance, observation, monitoring, search and rescue, combat training, jamming, detection of radio signals, and target tracking. The drone is usually used in a group of two or three, where the first one is used for reconnaissance in a height of 1-1.5 km, the second one for electronic warfare and the third one as a transponder that transmits intelligence information to the control center

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Belarus, Myanmar, Russian Federation, Syria, Ukraine.

Here is System information for the Orlan-10 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternative Designation is STC Orlan-10.
The Type is Medium-range, multi-purpose unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is Special Technology Center LLC.
The Primary Function is The Orlan-10  is intended for a variety of missions including aerial reconnaissance, observation, monitoring, search and rescue, combat training, jamming, detection of radio signals, and target tracking..
The Cost is US $87,000 and US $120,000.
The Day/Night Capable is Yes.
The All Weather Capable is Yes.
The Ground Crew is MP32M1 command and control vehicle. The ground segment can control up to four aerial vehicles simultaneously..
The Endurance is 16.
The Range is 150.
The Autopilot Capabile is Yes, operates autonomously based on pre-defined waypoints.
The Command and Control Modes is Both autonomous and remote control modes.
The Location Positioning System is Yes.
The Launch System is Folding catapult.
The Recovery System is Via Parachute Recovery.
The Number of Hard Points is INA.
The Manned-Unmanned Teaming (MUM-T) Capable is No.
The Automatic Landing and Takeoff Capability is No.
The Landing Gear is None.
The Transmit Telemetry Data Range is 120 km and 600 km from the launch station.
The Note is The Orlan-10 complex consists of unmanned aerial vehicles, launch and recovery systems, ground control segment, and swappable payloads..

Here is Dimensions information for the Orlan-10 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length (Fuselage) is 2.0.
The Width (Wing Span) is 3.1.
The Height is INA.
The Weight, Empty is 12.5.
The Weight, Maximum Takeoff is 16.5.
The Weight, Payload is 6.
The Note is The UAV’s modular design is provided with a number of interchangeable payloads allowing for greater mission flexibility..

Here is Automotive information for the Orlan-10 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is 1 x A-95 Engine.
The Engine Type is Gasoline-Fueled Engine.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Cruising Range is 150.
The Speed, Maximum is 150.
The Speed, Cruising is 110.
The Ceiling is 5,000.
The Endurance is 16.
The Number of Blades is 2.
The Maximum Wind Speed at the Start is 10.
The Operating Temperatures is −30 to +40 °C.

Here is Communications information for the Orlan-10 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Radio is INA.
The Retrans Radio is INA.

Here is Fire Control information for the Orlan-10 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Fire Control System Type is INA.
The Fire Control Radar is No.
The Radar Type is INA.
The Radar Designator is INA.
The Laser Rangefinder is INA.
The Day Light Camera is Yes.
The Video Camera is Yes.
The Gyro Stabilized Camera Pod is Yes.
The Thermal Imaging Sensors is Yes.
The Thermal Imaging Camera is Yes.
The Real-time Intelligence Capable is Yes.
The 3D Maps is Yes.
The Note is The imagery, video and other sensor data collected by the payloads is transmitted to the ground control station in real-time, through a data link..

Here is Protection information for the Orlan-10 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Stealth Properties is No.
The Heat Signature Reduction is INA.
The Add on Armor is No.
The EW is Equipment Available.
The EW Counter Measures / CCM is Equipment Available.
The Counter Measures (Chaffs/Flares) is INA.

