This document describes the GZM003 Chinese Tracked Self-Propelled Pontoon Bridge.

The GZM003 Chinese Tracked Self-Propelled Pontoon Bridge units can be used as a ferry to enable tracked and wheeled vehicles to rapidly cross a water obstacle. Two GMZ003s can be coupled together to transport heavier vehicles. A number of GMZ003 systems can be coupled together to form a bridge across a river or lake for a significant increase in wet gap crossing capability.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China, Russian Federation.

Here is System information for the GZM003 Chinese Tracked Self-Propelled Pontoon Bridge:
The Alternative Designation is GZM003.
The Type is Tracked Self-Propelled Pontoon Bridge.
The Manufacturer is Norinco.
The Chassis is The Type GZM003 is based on a chain chassis made in China with six rollers..
The Crew is 3.
The Emplacmeent Time is The company claims that it requires only six minutes to be prepared to receive the first vehicles for a river crossing. It takes eight minutes to couple two GZM003s together..
The Displacement Time is INA.
The Sea State is The GZM003 Chinese Tracked Self-Propelled Pontoon Bridge can operate in rivers with a maximum water speed of up to 2.5 m/s but performance could be limited in fast-flowing rivers..
The Note #1 is Each unit of the GZM003 has a folding loading and unloading path, which allows loading and unloading from both sides..
The Note #2 is The GZM003 Chinese Tracked Self-Propelled Pontoon Bridge units can be used as a ferry to enable tracked and wheeled vehicles to rapidly cross a water obstacle. Two GMZ003s can be coupled together to transport heavier vehicles. A number of GMZ003 systems can be coupled together to form a bridge across a river or lake for a significant increase in wet gap crossing capability..

Here is Dimensions information for the GZM003 Chinese Tracked Self-Propelled Pontoon Bridge:
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Weight is The bridge system – excluding the vehicle and other carried equipment – has a combat weight of 43 tons.

Here is Automotive information for the GZM003 Chinese Tracked Self-Propelled Pontoon Bridge:
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is INA.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Road Speed is 55 km/h.
The Range is 500 km.
The Amphibious is Yes, It is also fully amphibious being propelled through the water by propellers that operate via a power-take-off from the main diesel engine..
The Maximum Amphibious Speed is 10 km/h.
The Note is When travelling the large pontoons mounted either side are swung through 180° and stowed on the top to reduce its width..

Here is Protection information for the GZM003 Chinese Tracked Self-Propelled Pontoon Bridge:
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is INA.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

