This document describes the Sharp Claw I Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).

Sharp Claw I is one of two vehicles in the Sharp Claw family. Sharp Claw I is a small, tracked scout robot designed to be carried in the cargo bay of the larger Sharp Claw II and can be deployed as required. Sharp Claw I is designed to be used in remote areas unsuitable for personnel to detect and attack targets.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is System information for the Sharp Claw I Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Alternative Designation is Sharp Claw I.
The Type is Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).
The Manufacturer is NORINCO.
The Configuration is Track.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Control is An operator controls the vehicle by means of a lightweight, wearable operator control unit (OCU)..
The Sensors and Emitters is The platform can be fitted with various detectors, camera, and electro-optic (EO) equipment..

Here is Dimensions information for the Sharp Claw I Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Length is 700 mm.
The Width is INA.
The Height is 600 mm.
The Weight is 120 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Sharp Claw I Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Electric.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Range is 1 km.
The Speed, Maximum Road is INA.
The Endurance is INA.

Here is Communications information for the Sharp Claw I Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Note is The  Sharp Claw I Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) has multi-channel communication systems onboard..

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Sharp Claw I Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Note is The Sharp Claw I Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) has been displayed with a variety of 7.62mm General-Purpose Machine Guns..

Here is Protection information for the Sharp Claw I Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is INA.

