This document describes the M1133 (Stryker) American Armored Medical Evacuation Vehicle (MEV).

The M1133 Stryker Medical Evacuation Vehicle (MEV) is part of a family of eight-wheeled armored fighting vehicles derived from the Canadian LAV III. Stryker vehicles are produced by General Dynamics Land Systems for the United States Army. It has a 4-wheel drive (8×4) and can be switched to an all-wheel drive (8×8). It includes an elevated rear compartment to provide the medical crew with more headroom and all of the equipment necessary to stabilize casualties prior to and during transport to a battalion or brigade level aid station.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: CFE Treaty, United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the M1133 (Stryker) American Armored Medical Evacuation Vehicle (MEV):
The M1126 ICV is Armored personnel carrier version that provides protected transport for 2 crew and a 9 man infantry squad..
The M1127 (RV) is Reconnaissance Vehicle. used by RSTA (Reconnaissance, Surveillance, and Target Acquisition) Squadrons and battalion scouts, moving throughout the battlefield to gather and transmit real-time intelligence/surveillance for situational awareness.
The M1128 (MGS) is Mobile Gun System. Version armed with a 105 mm M68A1 rifled cannon (M68A1E4).
The M1129 (MC) is Mortar Carrier. armed with Soltam 120 mm Mortar supports infantry with screening obscurants, suppressive forces and on-call supporting fires (HE, illumination, IR illumination, smoke, precision-guided, and DPICM cluster bombs)..
The M1130 (CV) is Command Vehicle, provides commanders with communication, data, and control functions to analyze and prepare information for combat missions; can also link to aircraft antenna/power for planning missions..
The M1131 (FSV) is Fire Support Vehicle is organic to maneuver companies and provides surveillance and communications (4 secure combat radio nets), with target acquisition identification tracking, the designation being transmitted automatically to the shooting units..
The M1132 (ESV) is Engineer Squad Vehicle (ESV) provides mobility and limited counter mobility support. Integrated into the ESV are obstacle neutralization and lane marking systems and mine detection devices..
The M1134 (ATGM) is Anti-Tank Guided Missile Vehicle is armed with the TOW missile to reinforce the brigade's infantry and reconnaissance, providing long-range antitank fires against armor beyond tank gun effective range..
The M1135 (NBC RV) is Nuclear, Biological, Chemical Reconnaissance Vehicle automatically integrates contamination information from detectors with input from navigation and meteorological systems and transmits digital NBC warning messages to warn follow-on forces..

Here is System information for the M1133 (Stryker) American Armored Medical Evacuation Vehicle (MEV):
The Alternative Designation is M1133 Stryker Medical Evacuation Vehicle (MEV).
The Type is Wheeled Armored Field Ambulance.
The Manufacturer is General Dynamic Land Systems, USA and Canada.
The Configuration is 8x8.
The Family is Stryker.
The Crew is 3 Personnel.
The Passenger Capacity is 6 Ambulatory Patients or 4 Litter Patients.

Here is Dimensions information for the M1133 (Stryker) American Armored Medical Evacuation Vehicle (MEV):
The Length is 6.95.
The Width is 2.72.
The Height is 2.64.
The Weight, Combat is 17,525.
The Ground Pressure is 2.05 kg / square centimeter.

Here is Automotive information for the M1133 (Stryker) American Armored Medical Evacuation Vehicle (MEV):
The Engine Name is Caterpillar C7.
The Engine Type is 7.2-liter Turbo Diesel.
The Engine Power is 350.
The Cruising Range is 500.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 100.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.
The Fording Depth is 1.3.

Here is Mission Capabilities information for the M1133 (Stryker) American Armored Medical Evacuation Vehicle (MEV):
The Medical Evacuation is Evacuation includes emergency care enroute and enhanced by a medic. Patients protected by armored environment with adequate lighting and accessible medical equipment..
The Medic Station is Accessible seat that allows the attendant to monitor patients..
The Ambulance Markings is Ambulance is marked with Geneva Convention "Red Cross" insignia that can be removed or masked without altering the camouflage pattern..
The Litter Patient Ramp is Hydraulically operated rear ramp..
The Automatic Litter Lifter is Yes.
The Medical Supply Storage is Yes, multiple compartments to support storage of supplies needed for treatment of combat trauma patients..

Here is Command & Control information for the M1133 (Stryker) American Armored Medical Evacuation Vehicle (MEV):
The Battle Management System is FBCB2 (Force XXI battle command brigade and below).
The Digital is Yes, Utilizes digital communications system that allows comms between vehicles and higher headquarters through text messaging and a map network..

Here is Protection information for the M1133 (Stryker) American Armored Medical Evacuation Vehicle (MEV):
The Hull Armor is Constructed from high-hardness steel which offers a basic level of protection against 14.5mm rounds on the frontal arc, and all-around protection against 7.62mm ball ammunition..
The Applique Armor is Equipped with bolt-on ceramic armor which offers all-around protection against 14.5mm, armor-piercing ammunition, and artillery fragments from 152mm rounds..
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is INA.
The Mine Clearing is Yes, but limited capability. The Engineer Squad Vehicle (ESV) variant provides mobility and limited counter mobility support. Integrated into the ESV are obstacle neutralization and lane marking systems and mine detection devices..
The Self-Entrenching Blade is INA.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

