This document describes the AN/TPQ-50 American Counterfire Radar System.

The AN/TPQ-50 Lightweight Counter Mortar Radar (LCMR) is a highly mobile counterfire target acquisition radar organic to Brigade Combat Teams, field artillery brigades and division artilleries. The system provides 360 azimuth coverage between the ranges of .5 to 10 km while automatically detecting, classifying, tracking and locating points of origin of projectiles fired from mortar, artillery and rocket systems. The system is fielded in the vehicle-mounted configuration but can be operated in the tripod-mounted configuration.

The Q-50 can quickly detect, track, classify and accurately determine the point of origin of enemy indirect fires and provide projectile impact locations with sufficient accuracy to warn Soldiers and provide point of origin information for engagement. The Q-50 is networked with existing counterfire systems to provide the maneuver commander increased counterfire radar flexibility. It can be assembled and disassembled quickly by two Soldiers.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Netherlands, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Here is System information for the AN/TPQ-50 American Counterfire Radar System:
The Alternative Designation is AN/TPQ-50.
The Type is Multi-Mission Radar.
The Mission is Early warning, counterfire
target acquisition and
air surveillance.
The Crew is 1.
The Performance is The AN/TPQ-50 counterfire radar is an
official U.S. Army Program of Record,
a distinction of its effectiveness at
filling a critical need for America’s
warfighters. The radar has been
designed and tested against strict
U.S. military standards, including:
• MIL-STD-461E, Requirements for
the Control of Electromagnetic
Interference, Characteristics of Subsystems and Equipment
• MIL-STD-464A, Electromagnetic
Environmental Effects Requirements
for Systems
• MIL-STD-810G, Test Method
Standard for Environmental
Engineering Considerations &
Laboratory Tests
The predecessor of AN/TPQ-50
received the Top 10 Army Greatest
Invention award in 2004. This award
recognizes the best technological
solutions for soldiers, and how
these new technologies increase
competence for the U.S. Army..
The Benefits is Saves lives by providing early
warning of incoming fire
• Quickly locates enemy
RAM launchers
• Cues a counterfire response from
any integrated system
• Transports easily in
challenging terrain
• Low lifecycle cost
• Unattended remote operation.
The Operating Frequency is L-Band.
The Detection Range is 15 km, depending
on weapon type and trajectory.
The Point of Origin Accuracy is 50 m
at 10 km.
The Azimuth Coverage is 360°.
The Elevation Coverage is 0 - 30°.
The Power Requirements is 1,200 W,
110/240 VAC 50/60 Hz, 24 VDC.

Here is Dimensions information for the AN/TPQ-50 American Counterfire Radar System:
The Diameter is 102 cm.
The Height is 216 cm.
The Weight is less than 227 kg.

