This document describes the URO VAMTAC Spanish 4x4 High-Mobility Tactical Utility Vehicle.

The URO VAMTAC (Vehículo de Alta Movilidad Táctico, "High Mobility Tactical Vehicle") is a Spanish four-wheel drive military vehicle manufactured by the UROVESA. Externally it is similar in appearance and design to the Humvee of the United States Military due to similar requirements. More than 2,000 of the vehicles have been delivered to the Spanish Armed Forces. Several other countries operate the VAMTAC as well, and it has seen service most recently in Afghanistan and Syria. The vehicle comes in two models, named I3, S3 and ST5, and has several configurations.

 The VAMTAC is available in a number of variants with different body types. The main forms are pick-up, command/control and chassis-cab. Pick-up and chassis-cab variants are available with two-door, four-door or reduced size four-door version. The chassis-cab variant is used to mount a vide variety of shelters, or cargo bodies. The command/control variant has four-doors and cargo area, covered with soft, or sloping hard top. Open top models are available.

The URO VAMTAC was developed by the Spanish company URO, Vehiculos Especiales S.A. so that it would meet the requirements of the Spanish military for a multipurpose, air-portable, high mobility off-road vehicle with good payload capacity.

Just as the HMMWV entered production in 1984 the Spanish army started to think of purchasing their own multirole vehicle that would replace Land Rovers.

VAMTAC concept did not materialize until 1995 when a competition was held for a next-generation tactical vehicle. The American HMMWV was also a natural candidate for several reasons. UROVESA decided to design a vehicle that could exceed the US design.

After the vehicle was tested by the Spanish Ministry of Defense, UROVESA received a five-year contract and the URO VAMTAC was produced from 1998 to 2003. In October 2005, the Ministry of Defense awarded a new five-year contract for the URO VAMTAC after a three-month trial period. This also introduced some changes, and the two models of the vehicle which were named T3 and T5, were re-designated as I3 and S3 respectively. The URO VAMTAC is similar in appearance and design to the U.S. Military's Humvee, because both vehicles were designed to meet similar requirements and specifications.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Angola, Bahrain, Belgium, Dominican Republic, Ghana, Malaysia, Morocco, Portugal, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of).

Here is Variants information for the URO VAMTAC Spanish 4x4 High-Mobility Tactical Utility Vehicle:
The VAMTAC I3 is 166-hp Steyr diesel engine..
The VAMTAC S3 is 188-hp Steyr diesel engine, reinforced suspension with greater payload capacity..
The FAMTAC BN3 is Up-armored version with 220-hp Steyer M16TCA-3 6-cylinder engine with a top speed of 135 km/h..
The Ambulance is 2 stretcher or 4 seated patients in rear compartment..
The ATGM Carrier is For GBM-71 TOW or MILAN ATGM systems..
The Anti-Aircraft Vehicle is Mistral Surface-to-air missiles..
The Command & Control Vehicle is Separate rear compartment for communications gear..
The PYSOP Vehicle is Equipped with loudspeaker..

Here is System information for the URO VAMTAC Spanish 4x4 High-Mobility Tactical Utility Vehicle:
The Alternative Designations is Vehiculo de Alta Movilidad Tactico (VAMTAC).
The Proliferation is Total: +4,500 (All VAMTAC Versions and Variants)

 Angola                             [24]
 Belgium                           [N/A]
 Dominican Republic        [80]
 Ghana                             [30]
 Malaysia                         [103]
 Morocco                         [1,200]
 Portugal                         [139]
 Romania                        [100+]
 Saudi Arabia                   [30]
 Singapore                       [N/A]
 Spain
   Army                             [2,000+]
 Venezuela                       [N/A].
The Description is 4 X 4 HMMWV like vehicle with 2-door or 4-door modesl available; used in a variety of configurations including recon; normal passenger capacity is.
The Manufacturer is UROVESA.
The Crew is 1.
The Passengers is 3.

Here is Dimensions information for the URO VAMTAC Spanish 4x4 High-Mobility Tactical Utility Vehicle:
The Length (Depending on Versions and Variants) is 4.85 m to 5.55 m.
The Width is 2.18.
The Height is 1.90.
The Weight, Curb is 3,000 kg to 3,500 kg.
The Weight, Payload is 2,000 kg to 2,500 kg.
The Towing Capacity is 3,000 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the URO VAMTAC Spanish 4x4 High-Mobility Tactical Utility Vehicle:
The Automotive Performance is 1 x Steyr turbocharged 4-cyl diesel; 166 hp; or 1 x Steyr turbocharged 6-cyl diesel; 188 hp.
The Engine Type is Turbo-charged 4-cylinder or – cylinder diesel.
The Engine Powerr is 166-188.
The Fuel Capacity is 110.
The Transmission is 5 speed automatic.
The Maximum Range is 600.
The Speed is 126 km/h to 135 km/h.
The Gradient is 75.
The Side Slope is 40.
The Vertical Step is 0.5.
The Trench is 0.5.
The Fording, without Preperation is 0.75.
The Fording, with Preperation is 1.5.
The Suspension is 4-wheel independent (double wishbones with coil-springs).

Here is Communications information for the URO VAMTAC Spanish 4x4 High-Mobility Tactical Utility Vehicle:
The Radio is Customer Dependent.

Here is Protection information for the URO VAMTAC Spanish 4x4 High-Mobility Tactical Utility Vehicle:
The Armor (turret front) is INA.
The Applique Armor is No.
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is INA.
The Self-entrenching Blade is No.
The NBC Protection System is Available.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

