This document describes the GATR 1.2M American Inflatable Antenna.

From an innovative, ultra-portable design, the GATR 1.2m Antenna System provides high-bandwidth communications for transmission of secure and non-secure data, voice and video transmissions.

Incorporating an inflatable radome and flexible parabolic reflector mounted at its equator, GATR 1.2M features a single Ku-band 1.2-meter satellite terminal, all in a compact system that fits comfortably into one airline-checkable case weighing less than 75 pounds (34 kg).

A 50-percent reduction in pack-out weight and volume compared to deployable rigid antennas of similar size, making it ideal for first-in deployments, remote applications and contingency scenarios where transportation and space are limited. Plus, set up takes less than 20 minutes.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Australia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Here is System information for the GATR 1.2M American Inflatable Antenna:
The Alternative Designation is GATR 1.2m.
The Type is Inflatable Antenna.
The Crew is 2.
The Band is Ku-Band; X-Band.
The Emplacement Time is Under 20 minutes on satellite.
The Displacement Time is Under 20 minutes on satellite.
The Optics is Prime focus.
The Reflector Construction is Flexible parabolic fabric.
The Az/El/Pol is Manual point and align.
The Modem is Works with all standard SATCOM modems.
The Satellite Location Controller is iDirect SNR tuning.
Satellite acquisition, peaking, and
cross pol adjustment using GPS or compass, and level inputs.
The Interface is CAT-5 cable for IP applications.
The Elevation is 5 to 90 deg.
The Azimuth is +/-10 deg of hold-downs.
The Polarization, Ku-Band is Linear.
The Polarization, X-Band is Circular.
The Transmit Gain (Mid-band), Ku-Band is 43.0 dBi.
The Transmit Gain (Mid-band), X-Band is 37.0 dBi.
The Receive Gain (Mid-band), Ku-Band is 41.5 dBi.
The Receive Gain (Mid-band), X-Band is 36.1 dBi.
The Satellite System Compliance, Ku-Band is Intelsat.
The Satellite System Compliance, X-Band is Skynet and XTAR.
The Operating Temperature is Operational: -32 to +55°C
Storage: -40 to +60°C.
The Wind Load is Operational: 40 mph (64 kph)
Survivable: 60 mph (97 kph) with anchor spikes.
The Power is 100-277V AC.

Here is Dimensions information for the GATR 1.2M American Inflatable Antenna:
The Length, Standard Case is 79 cm.
The Width, Standard Case is 51 cm.
The Height, Standard Case is 30.5 cm.
The Weight is 34 kg.

