This document describes the ACMAT ALTV French 4x4 Light Utility Vehicle.

The ALTV Light Tactical Vehicle is available with a two-door (ALTV SC) or four-door (ALTV DC) cab. An open-cab version (ALTV Torpedo) for special forces is also available. The vehicle has a payload capacity of 1.3 - 1.4 t, depending on the version. A cargo area in the rear can be used to carry troops, cargo, shelters, or standard ISO pallets. It is fitted with benches for troop transportation. The ALTV can carry up to 10 men both in the cab and cargo area. Bars and canvas cover for the cargo area are optional.

The ALTV can be armed with a ring-mounted 7.62-mm or 12.7-mm machine gun, or a 40-mm automatic grenade launcher. The vehicle can be also used as a weapon carrier for anti-tank or anti-aircraft missiles.

The engine compartment is equipped with a snorkel system for making shallow water crossings.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Benin, Burkina Faso, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, France, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Togo.

Here is Variants information for the ACMAT ALTV French 4x4 Light Utility Vehicle:
The Torpedo is Open cab version. Missions include utility, fire support, reconnaissance and border surveillance, as well as recovery, cargo / troop / personnel transport, patrol, and ambulance. Anti-mine protection Level 1. he ALTV Torpedo can be fitted with 24-volt pre-equipment for radio communication systems. A self-recovery electric winch of 3,800 kg pulling force can be added at the front of the chassis..
The ALTV SAN is Field ambulance version. 
Crew: 2 in cab
Rear: 2 seats with 12 stretcher, or 1 folding seat with 4 stretchers
Length 5.47 m
Width 1.90 m
Height 2.50 m.
The ALT SW is Enclosed station wagon version..
The ALT SC is Two door version..
The ALTV DC is Four door version..

Here is Dimensions information for the ACMAT ALTV French 4x4 Light Utility Vehicle of the System:
The Length, Chassis Overall is 5.3.
The Width, Overall is 1.9.
The Height, Overall is 1.77.
The Weight is 2.1 tons.

Here is Mobility information for the ACMAT ALTV French 4x4 Light Utility Vehicle:
The Mobility, Air Lift is C-130 Hercules, TRANSALL C-160, Airbus A400.
The Mobility, Slingload is CH-47 Chinook helicopter.
The Moblity, Para-drop is Yes.

Here is Fuel information for the ACMAT ALTV French 4x4 Light Utility Vehicle of the Automotive:
The Fuel Capacity Main Tank is 80.
The Fuel capacity Auxiliary Tank is 80.

Here is Communications information for the ACMAT ALTV French 4x4 Light Utility Vehicle:
The Radio systems is 24-volt pre-equipment for radio communication systems..

Here is Weapon 1 information for the ACMAT ALTV French 4x4 Light Utility Vehicle of the Armament:
The Name is General purpose machine gun.
The Type is Ring mounted and/or swivel mounted.
The Caliber is 7.62.

Here is Weapon 2 information for the ACMAT ALTV French 4x4 Light Utility Vehicle of the Armament:
The Name is Heavy machine gun.
The Type is Ring mounted.
The Caliber is 12.7.

Here is Weapon 3 information for the ACMAT ALTV French 4x4 Light Utility Vehicle of the Armament:
The Caliber is 40.
The Name is Automatic grenade launcher.

Here is Protection information for the ACMAT ALTV French 4x4 Light Utility Vehicle:
The Armor, Applique is Optional. NATO STANAG 4569 Level 1: Protection against 5.56- and 7.62-mm, hand grenade blasts and anti-personnel mine explosions under the hull..
The Armor, Explosive Reactive is No.
The Armor, Turret Front is No.
The Active Protection System is No.
The NBC Protection is No.
The Smoke Equipment is No.
The Survivability Equipment is No.

