This document describes the REVA III South African 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP).

The REVA III South African 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) provides blast and ballistic protection for infantry sections during patrol operations in battle environments where the threats are varied and unpredictable.

The REVA III is the base variant of the family and the most widely used vehicle offered by ICP. It is offered with a short and long wheelbase and it is believed that the long wheelbase is the primary configuration.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Equatorial Guinea, Iraq, Nigeria, Somalia, Thailand, Yemen.

Here is Variants information for the REVA III South African 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The REVA V is The REVA V is a larger version of the REVA III designed to perform similar roles but with improved off-road mobility..
The REVA Ambulance is The REVA ambulance is based on the REVA V..
The REVA IV 6×6 ARV is This is the first 6×6 vehicle type to be developed by ICP..

Here is System information for the REVA III South African 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Alternative Designation is REVA III.
The Type is Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP).
The Manufacturer is Integrated Convoy Protection (ICP).
The Configuration is 4x4.
The Crew is 2.
The Passengers is 8.
The Payload Capacity is 1,300 kg.

Here is Dimensions information for the REVA III South African 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Length is 6.0 m.
The Width is 2.48 m.
The Height is 2.6 m.
The Weight, Standard is 8,200 kg.
The Weight, Combat is 9,500 kg.
The Ground Clearance is 0.24 m.
The Wheelbase is 3.2 m.

Here is Automotive information for the REVA III South African 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Engine Name is Cummins GBT 5.9TC.
The Engine Type is in line-6, turbocharged, diesel.
The Engine Power is 170 hp at 2,500 rpm.
The Power-to-Weight Ratio is 17.89 hp/t.
The Fuel Capacity is 200 liters.
The Maximum Range is 500 km.
The Maximum Speed is 100 km/h.
The Amphibious is No.
The Gradient is 50%.
The Angle of Approach is 28 deg.
The Angle of Departure is 40 deg.
The Turning Radius is 7.75 m.
The Suspension is semi-elliptical springs and double-acting hydraulic shock-absorbers.

Here is Main Weapons System information for the REVA III South African 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Note is The REVA III can be armed with protected weapon stations to the front and rear of the roof. Typically the weapon stations consist of a gun shield and the roof hatch locked in the vertical position. The weapon selection would depend on the end-user, but could include general-purpose MGs and heavy MGs..

Here is Protection information for the REVA III South African 4x4 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Armor is The REVA III has a welded V-shaped monocoque double skin hull, which range from B7 to B7+ and STANAG 4569 Level 3 or Level 4 standard, which provides protection to 7.62 × 51 mm armour-piercing attack at a distance of 30 m with a muzzle velocity of 930 m/s. There is a 25 mm gap between the two layers of welded steel armour and the upper hull is supported by a V-shaped bottom plate that is internally reinforced by means of a capping plate for enhanced blast protection..
The Applique Armor is Available.
The Mine Protection is Mine protection is to STANAG 4569 Level 3, which is 10 kg blast anti-tank mine under any wheel station. On the sides of the hull is an additional steel plate 6 mm thick to provide additional protection against IEDs and explosive-formed projectile attacks. The ballistic glass is 63 mm thick on the REVA III and the use of a two-piece windshield may facilitate maintenance as the size of ballistic glass that must be handled if damaged is relatively small compared with a large single-piece windshield..
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

