This document describes the PTS-M (Ob'yekt 65) Russian Tracked Amphibious Transport Vehicle.

The PTS is a Soviet-tracked amphibious transport. PTS stands for Plavayushchij Transportyer - Sryednyj or medium amphibious transport vehicle. Its industrial index was Ob'yekt 65.

Introduced in 1965, it is large, with a substantial payload of 10 tons, two to four times the capacity of the BAV 485, and better cross-country performance, at the cost of greater somewhat higher purchase costs because it is tracked. The most common model is the improved PTS-M which is powered by a 350-hp diesel engine.

The PTS has a boxy, open watertight hull, with six road wheels per side, front drive sprocket, rear idler sprocket, and no return rollers. Like the BAV 485, and unlike the DUKW, it has a rear loading ramp. The crew is seated at the front, leaving the rear of the vehicle open for a vehicle, which can be driven (or backed) in, rather than lifted over the side. To aid in facilitating this, the engine is under the floor.

Propulsion in water is by means of twin propellers, in tunnels to protect them from damage during land operations. The PTS-M also has a companion vehicle, the PKP, a boat-like amphibious two-wheeled trailer, with fold-out sponsons providing stability on water; the combination allows the PTS-M to accommodate an artillery tractor, field gun (up to medium caliber), its crew, and a quantity of ammunition, all in one load.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Algeria, Cambodia, Croatia, Egypt, Georgia, Hungary, Indonesia, Iraq, Laos (People's Democratic Republic), Latvia, North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Poland, Serbia, Syria, Ukraine, Uruguay, Viet Nam.

Here is Variants information for the PTS-M (Ob'yekt 65) Russian Tracked Amphibious Transport Vehicle:
The PTS-2 is INA.
The PTS-3 is INA.
The PTS-4 is In 2014, the Russian Defense Ministry intends to purchase an undetermined number of PTS-4s, which underwent acceptance trials in 2011. The vehicle will be fitted with a remotely operated 12.7 mm (0.50 in) machine gun and a multi-fuel engine. The PTS-4 weighs 33 tons, with a payload of 12 tons on land (18 tons on water). Projected maximum road speed is 60 km/h (37 mph), with an expected maximum speed in water of 15 km/h (9.3 mph). Unlike its predecessors, it uses T-80 suspension components. The fully enclosed cab offers protection against small arms fire and splinter. Production began in 2014..

Here is System information for the PTS-M (Ob'yekt 65) Russian Tracked Amphibious Transport Vehicle:
The Alternative Designation is PTS-M (Ob'yekt 65).
The Type is Track Amphibious Transport.
The Manufacturer is Soviet State Factories.
The Family is PTS.
The Cab Seating is 1 + 2 men.
The Passenger Capacity is 70 troops,.
The Maximum Payload Capacity on Land is 10.
The Maximum Payload Capacity on Water is 5.

Here is Dimensions information for the PTS-M (Ob'yekt 65) Russian Tracked Amphibious Transport Vehicle:
The Length is 12.
The Width is 3.17.
The Height is 3.3.
The Weight, Empty is 17.
The Maximum Payload Capacity on Water is 5.
The Maximum Payload Capacity on Land is 10.

Here is Automotive information for the PTS-M (Ob'yekt 65) Russian Tracked Amphibious Transport Vehicle:
The Engine Name is A-712P.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 340.
The Maximum Cruising Range is 380.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 42.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is 12.
The Gradient is 60.
The Side Slope is 30.
The Vertical Step is 0.65.
The Trench is 2.5.
The Fording Depth is Amphibious.
The Sea State is 4.
The Winch is Yes.

Here is Protection information for the PTS-M (Ob'yekt 65) Russian Tracked Amphibious Transport Vehicle:
The Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is No.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is No.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

