This document describes the RPG-7 Russian Rocket-Propelled Grenade Launcher.

HEZBOLLAH Proliferation. The RPG-7 is a rocket-propelled grenade launcher, firing a range of projectiles, however, they are primarily anti-tank in nature. The RPG-7 is designed to be carried and operated by one user, ammunition is also carried by the user but can be distributed amongst the section. For firing, an expelling charge is screwed to the rocket motor base and the grenade is inserted rearwards into the launcher muzzle where a small cross‐cut screw head is mated with an index notch in the muzzle. This lines up the ignition cap with the percussion hammer. The safety pin and the fuse cover on the warhead are then removed. The hammer at the upper rear of the pistol grip is thumb‐cocked and, when the trigger is depressed, the hammer rises to strike the primer and fire the grenade.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Belarus, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Laos (People's Democratic Republic), Moldova, Myanmar, Non-State Actors, Poland, Romania, Russian Federation, Slovakia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Viet Nam.

Here is Variants information for the RPG-7 Russian Rocket-Propelled Grenade Launcher:
The RPG-250 is Prototype and test base for the RPG-7V..
The RPG-7V1 is Upgrade w/bipod and improved PGO-7V3 sight. This is the standard production ATGL version since the late 1990s..
The RPG-7B1N3, -7N, and -7N1 is Night site variant.
The RPG-7D, RPG-7DV1, and RPG- 7D2N3 (night) is Folding variants used by airborne troops. RPG-7D3 is the airborne counterpart to RPG-7V1..
The Type 69-1, II, III is Chinese upgrades variants with lighter weight, a wide range of munitions, and 3.0 x longer range sights..
The MA-10 is Myanmar Copy of the RPG-7..

Here is DImensions information for the RPG-7 Russian Rocket-Propelled Grenade Launcher:
The Length, Unloaded is 960.1 mm.
The Length, Loaded is 1,336 mm.
The Projectile Diameter is 85 mm.
The Height is 210 mm.
The Width Across Venturi is 120 mm.
The Weight, Unloaded is 6.57 kg.
The Weight, Loaded is 8.6 kg.

