This document describes the Type 646 Class (Kanyang Class) Chinese Hydrographic Survey Ship.

Type 646 hydrographic survey ship with NATO reporting name Kanyang class is a type of survey vessel currently in service with the People's Liberation Army Navy (PLAN).

Type 646 Kanyang class survey ship is designed by the 4th Directorate of the 708th Institute of China State Shipbuilding Corporation (CSSC), which is also more commonly known as China Shipbuilding and Oceanic Engineering Design Academy nowadays. Construction of both ships begun simultaneously in December 1978 and both were launched in 1982, and both entered service with PLAN South Sea Fleet in 1978. In comparison to earlier shps converted from fishing and cargo vessels, these purposely designed ships carried more equipment and greatly improved efficiency. These ships are named as Nan-Ce (南测, meaning South Survey), followed by a three digit number. South means South Sea Fleet and Survey means that these ships are survey vessels.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is Variants information for the Type 646 Class (Kanyang Class) Chinese Hydrographic Survey Ship:
The Nan-Ce 426 is Commissioned: 1983
Status: Active
Fleet: South Sea Fleet.
The Nan-Ce 428 is Commissioned: 1983
Status: Active
Fleet: South Sea Fleet.

Here is System information for the Type 646 Class (Kanyang Class) Chinese Hydrographic Survey Ship:
The Alternative Designation is Type 646 Class; NATO: Kanyang Class.
The Type is Hydrographic Survey Ship.
The Builder is Guijiang Shipyard.
The Crew is INA.

Here is Dimensions information for the Type 646 Class (Kanyang Class) Chinese Hydrographic Survey Ship:
The Length is 60 m.
The Beam is INA.
The Draft is INA.
The Displacement, Standard is 676 tons.
The Displacement, Full Load is INA.

Here is Propulsion System information for the Type 646 Class (Kanyang Class) Chinese Hydrographic Survey Ship:
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Range is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 28.7 km/h (15.5 kts).
The Survey Speed is 7.5 km/h (4 kts).

Here is Protection information for the Type 646 Class (Kanyang Class) Chinese Hydrographic Survey Ship:
The Active Protection System is None.
The Countermeasures is No.
The NBC Water Washdown System is Yes.

