This document describes the Qiongsha Class Chinese Cargo Ship.

Qiongsha (琼沙)-class cargo ship is a class of Chinese ship developed by China for its People's Liberation Army Navy (PLAN). These ships are mainly used for supplying garrisons in South China Sea. There are three versions of this class, including cargo ship, ambulance transport, and troopship versions. The general designers of all versions of Qiongsha class were Mr. Pan Hui-Quan (潘惠泉) and Mr. Huang Zhong-Fu (黄钟福).

Qiongsha class cargo ship in PLAN service is directly based on Qiongsha 1 cargo ship in civilian service, which performs the same supply missions. The difference between the military and civilian version besides the fact that the military version is armed with heavy machine guns is that in addition to cargo, the civilian version also carried 219 passengers in cabins divided into two classes. The military version does not have any classification of cabins, but instead, they also act as emergency medical ships. Its secondary assignment as emergency medical provider is resulted from experience of deployment of island garrisons: once a soldier became sick, he must be transported to mainland for treatment, but even when transported by the fastest speedboat, it would still take two days to reach Hainan. Qiongsha class cargo ship is equipped with medical facility for preliminary treatment en route to mainland and thus providing better treatment. The number of passengers that can be carried is decreased accordingly. Cargo capacity of the military version is identical to that of civilian version: 200 tons of solid cargo, 150 tons of freshwater. Of the six ships of this class, all of them were built as cargo ship version to begin with, and it was only later some of them were converted to different versions.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is Variants information for the Qiongsha Class Chinese Cargo Ship:
The Nan-Yun 830 is Commissioned: 1980s
Fleet: South Sea Fleet.
The Nan-Yun 831 is Commissioned: 1980s
Fleet: South Sea Fleet.
The Nan-Yun 832 is Commissioned: 1980s
Fleet: South Sea Fleet.
The Nan-Yun 834 is Commissioned: 1980s
Fleet: South Sea Fleet.
The Nan-Yun 835 is Commissioned: 1980s
Fleet: South Sea Fleet.

Here is System information for the Qiongsha Class Chinese Cargo Ship:
The Alternative Designation is Type 904 Class; Type 904A Class; Type 904B Class; Dayun Class.
The Type is Cargo Ship.
The Builder is Jiangnan Shipyard.
The In Service is 1985-Present.
The Crew is INA.
The Cargo Capacity is Qiongsha class cargo ship in PLAN service is directly based on Qiongsha 1 cargo ship in civilian service, which performs the same supply missions. The difference between the military and civilian version besides the fact that the military version is armed with heavy machine guns is that in addition to cargo, the civilian version also carried 219 passengers in cabins divided into two classes. The military version does not have any classification of cabins, but instead, they also act as emergency medical ships. Its secondary assignment as emergency medical provider is resulted from experience of deployment of island garrisons: once a soldier became sick, he must be transported to mainland for treatment, but even when transported by the fastest speedboat, it would still take two days to reach Hainan. Qiongsha class cargo ship is equipped with medical facility for preliminary treatment en route to mainland and thus providing better treatment. The number of passengers that can be carried is decreased accordingly. Cargo capacity of the military version is identical to that of civilian version: 200 tons of solid cargo, 150 tons of freshwater. Of the six ships of this class, all of them were built as cargo ship version to begin with, and it was only later some of them were converted to different versions..
The Troop Capacity is Some of the Qiongsha class cargo ship are converted to troopships, though the exact number remain unknown. These troopships still maintained the original cargo carrying capacity of 350 tons, but lack the emergency medical treatment capability because the clinical care facility on board the cargo version is deleted to make more rooms for additional troops, with the number of passengers carried is increased to 400..

Here is Dimensions information for the Qiongsha Class Chinese Cargo Ship:
The Length is 86.
The Beam is 13.4m.
The Draft is 3.9 m.
The Displacement, Full Load is 2,150 tons.

Here is Propulsion System information for the Qiongsha Class Chinese Cargo Ship:
The Engine Name is Name.
The Engine Type is 3 East German 8NVD48A-2U.
The Engine Power is @ 1320 hp each.
The Maximum Range is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 44.7 km/h (22 kts).
The Maximum Range is 2,500 nm @ 20.4 km/h (11 kts).
The Endurance is 12 days.

Here is Gun Weapon Systems information for the Qiongsha Class Chinese Cargo Ship:
The Note is 4 x 14.5mm Heavy Machine Guns.

Here is Protection information for the Qiongsha Class Chinese Cargo Ship:
The Active Protection System is INA.
The Electronic Warfare is INA.
The Decoys is INA.
The NBC Protection is Yes.

