This document describes the Khordad-3 Iranian Medium-Range Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System.

The Khordad-3 Iranian Medium-Range Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System is the most advanced version of the Ra'ad air defense system. It has the greatest reported range of any of the variants. Khordad-3 is equipped with Opt-Electronic System and Taer-2 Missile and Sayyad-2C Missile which is also known as Khordad-3 Missile System.

The technical data of the individual Raad versions are based on official Iranian publications. The extent to which the information can be accurate is difficult to verify.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Iran (Islamic Republic of).

Here is Variants information for the Khordad-3 Iranian Medium-Range Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System:
The Ra'ad is The Ra'ad surface-to-air missile system has been designed to engage targets such as fighter jets, cruise missiles, smart bombs, helicopters, and drones (UAVs)..
The Khordad-3 is The 3rd Khordad is the most advanced version of the Ra'ad air defense system. It has the greatest reported range of any of the variants..
The Tabas is The Tabas is a transporter-erector-launcher radar variant of the Ra'ad fitted with a radar similar to the "Fire Dome" radar fitted to the Buk-M1. It can reportedly only engage a single target at a time, while providing guidance to two missiles..
The Alam al Hoda is The Alam al Hoda is a transporter-erector-launcher in the Ra'ad family. The TEL can carry three missiles..
The 9 Dey is The 9 Dey system is a variant of the 3 Khordad, which uses a modified version of the latter's TELAR vehicle, and is armed with a shorter-range missile..

Here is System information for the Khordad-3 Iranian Medium-Range Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System:
The Alternative Designation is Khordad-3, 3-Khordad, Ra'ad 3; Sevom Khordad.
The Type is Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System.
The Manufacturer is IRGC aerospace force.
The In Service is 2012-Present.
The Family is Ra'ad.
The Chassis is MZKT-6922.
The Crew is INA.
The Displacement Time is INA.
The Emplacement Time is INA.
The Fire on the Move is No.
The Note is A Khordad-3 Iranian Medium-Range Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System battalion consists of four batteries, each consisting of one 3rd Khordad TELARs linked to two Alam al Hoda TELs for a total of four TELARS and eight TELs. Overall air surveillance is achieved with a Bashir 3D phased array surveillance radar operating in the S-band with a range of 190 mi (350 km)..

Here is Dimensions (Chassis: MZKT-6922) information for the Khordad-3 Iranian Medium-Range Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System:
The Length is 7.5.
The Width is 3.3.
The Height is 5.1.
The Weight, Combat is INA.
The Ground Pressure is INA.

Here is Automotive (Chassis: MZKT-6922) information for the Khordad-3 Iranian Medium-Range Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System:
The Engine Name is YaMZ-7513.10-02.
The Engine Type is turbocharged 8-cylinder diesel.
The Engine Power is 420.
The Cruising Range is 1,000.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 80.
The Speed, Off-Road is 30.
The Speed Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.
The Fording Depth is INA.
The Fuel Endurance is 1,000.

Here is Missile Launcher information for the Khordad-3 Iranian Medium-Range Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System of the Missile System:
The Name is INA.
The Type is INA.

Here is Missile Set #1 information for the Khordad-3 Iranian Medium-Range Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System of the Missile System:
The Name is Taer-2.
The Type is Surface-to-Air Missile.
The Engine is Solid Fuel Rocket.
The Guidance System is Radar.
The Speed is Mach 3.5.
The Maximum Effective Range is 50.
The Minimum Effective Range is 1,000.
The Ceiling is 25.
The Basic Load is 3.

Here is Missile Set #2 information for the Khordad-3 Iranian Medium-Range Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System of the Missile System:
The Name is Sayyad-2C.
The Type is Surface-to-Air Missile.
The Engine is Solid Fuel Rocket.
The Guidance System is Radar.
The Speed is Mach 4.5.
The Maximum Effective Range is 75.
The Minimum Effective Range is INA.
The Ceiling is 30.
The Basic Load is 3.

Here is Fire Control System information for the Khordad-3 Iranian Medium-Range Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System of the Fire Control:
The Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is Yes.
The Direct Fire is No.
The Indirect Fire is Yes.
The Fire Control Sensors is Yes.
The IADS Integration is INA.
The Camera Optics Range is 80.
The Note is The system can engage two targets at a time..

Here is Radar #1 information for the Khordad-3 Iranian Medium-Range Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System of the Fire Control:
The Name is 1 x Alam-Al-Hoodi Air Defense System.
The Type is Long-range radar.
The Band is VHF.
The Range is INA.
The Number of Targets System can Track is INA.
The Note is Very little is written about the radar systems of the Ra'ad..

Here is Radar #2 information for the Khordad-3 Iranian Medium-Range Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System of the Fire Control:
The Name is 1 x Bashir 3D array surveillance radar.
The Type is Air surveillance.
The Band is S-Band.
The Maximum Effective Range is 350.

Here is Protection information for the Khordad-3 Iranian Medium-Range Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System:
The Hull Armor is No.
The Turret Armor is No.
The Applique Armor is No.
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is Thunderbolt Air Defense Systems.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is No.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

