This document describes the UBot FMR C16 Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).

The UBot FMR C-16 Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) is a firefighting and chemical detection robot.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is System information for the UBot FMR C16 Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Alternative Designation is UBot FMR C-16.
The Type is Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).
The Manufacturer is HRSTEK.
The Mission is The UBot FMR C-16 Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) is a firefighting and chemical detection robot. The UBot FMR C-16 Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) can carry out on-site detection, reconnaissance, and retrieve information such as images, audio, video, and other data..
The Configuration is Tracked.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Control is The operator control unit (OCU) is a portable, suitcase style, ruggedised screen that is water- and dust-proof with a graphical keypad for the controls and thumb joysticks..
The Software is INA.
The Operating Temperature is –20 to +80°C.
The Cameras is 4 x cameras are mounted for 360° situational awareness..
The Sensors is The unit is capable of detecting up to six different types of chemicals gasses..
The Payload Capacity is INA.
The Environmental is IP65.

Here is Dimensions information for the UBot FMR C16 Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Length is 1.4 m.
The Width is 0.97 m.
The Height is 0.10 m.
The Weight is 450 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the UBot FMR C16 Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Battery.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Range is 500 m (wireless).
The Maximum Speed is 3.6 km/h.
The Maximum Incline is 30°.
The Turning Radius is 0°.
The Vertical Obstacle Avoidance is 250 mm.
The Endurance is 1 hour and 30 min.

Here is Communications information for the UBot FMR C16 Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Note is Data, such as images, audio, and video is processed in real time and transmitted to the operator control unit (OCU)..

Here is Protection information for the UBot FMR C16 Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Armor is The company states that the robot has explosion-proof certification ‘ExdeibmbIIBT4Gbʼ..
The Applique Armor is No.

