This document describes the Jump 20 American Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The Jump 20 American Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) is a vertical takeoff and landing (VTOL), fixed-wing unmanned aircraft used to provide advanced multi-sensor intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) services. Delivering 14+ hours of endurance and an operational range of 185 km (115 mi), the JUMP 20 is ideal for multi-mission operations. Runway independent, the system can be set up and operational in less than 60 minutes without the need for launch or recovery equipment.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: United States of America.

Here is System information for the Jump 20 American Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is Jump 20.
The Type is Vertical Take-Off and Landing Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is AeroVironment.
The Autonomy is Semi-Autonomous.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Ground Control Station is The tactical drone can be operated by two crew members from the ground control station..
The Payload Capacity is 13.6 kg.
The Camera is The standard payload options are Cloud Cap Technology’s TASE series gyro-stabilised, gimballed electro-optical / infrared (EO/IR) imaging systems such as TASE400, TASE400HD, TASE400DXR and TASE400LRS. The EO / IR cameras provide imagery and video data and target tracking in real time, both during the day and at night..
The Launching System is No launch system or runway required. Vertical takeoff & Landing.
The Recovery System is Vertical Take-Off and Landing.
The GCS is Common GCS with T-20.

Here is Dimensions information for the Jump 20 American Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is 2.9 m.
The Wingspan is 5.7 m.
The Height is INA.
The Maximum Takeoff Weight is 97.5 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Jump 20 American Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is Mogas.
The Engine Type is 190 cc EFI Engine.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 92.6 km/h.
The Cruising Speed is INA.
The Service Ceiling is 5181.6 m.
The Maximum Distance is 185 km.
The Endurance is 14 hours.

