This document describes the Outlaw Seahunter American Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The newest and most advanced derivative of the Outlaw UAV program, the SeaHunter is the flagship UAV system from Griffon Aerospace.

SeaHunter was designed as a larger, cost effective UAV platform for ISR missions, system testing, R&D efforts, and payload development studies. Placed in the 250-300 lbs. max take-off weight (MTOW) UAV class, this airplane offers customers a unique product in the world of UAV systems.

SeaHunter is a twin engine design that offers a redundant propulsion and power generation system, as well as redundant aerodynamic controls. This can provide peace of mind to customers that want to fly payloads that are often much more valuable than the airframe itself. In the event of a catastrophic engine failure during flight, the second engine is sufficient to bring the aircraft back home safely. The on-board electrical generation from the twin engines can provide plenty of power for emerging small, but highly power dependent, payloads. SeaHunter is equipped with retractable landing gear for smooth take-off and landing. As with Outlaw G2E, SeaHunter can be configured for auto take-off and auto landing where improved runways are accessible. Reinforced hard points are located in the fuselage and both wings, giving customers the ability to add external payloads or auxiliary fuel pods.

Griffon SeaHunter is aimed at a broad and diverse range of customers. It has been optimized for versatility, reliability, and toughness making it a flexible, tactical-class UAV workhorse.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the Outlaw Seahunter American Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Outlaw G2E is The Outlaw G2E, aka G2 UAV, is the entry level UAV system from Griffon Aerospace. This aircraft was designed with high value payloads in mind. The shape and size of the G2E was derived from the highly successful Griffon Outlaw G2 RPVT. This aircraft is intended to provide an open and customizable UAV platform for ISR missions, systems testing, and R&D.

Griffon G2E uses a proven and reliable engine platform with an upgraded Electronic Fuel Injection (EFI) system. This gives the plane both efficiency and reliability at high altitudes. The G2E is also equipped with an on-board electrical generator that allows customers to provide power to their equipment without the need to add batteries.

The aircraft utilizes a high aspect ratio wing to achieve both long duration flights and high aerodynamic efficiency. G2E is equipped with fixed steerable landing gear so it can be recovered more gently than a comparable belly-land, string capture, or net capture aircraft.

Customers with access to improved runway surfaces can achieve even more landing finesse thanks to an optional Differential GPS (DGPS) receiver. With this top-level landing configuration, the G2E can be programmed for auto take-off, auto-pilot flight patterns, and auto landing at the end of the mission.

The Outlaw G2E allows Griffon to offer exceptional peace of mind at a great value for customers flying very sensitive and highly valuable payloads..
The Broadsword is The Broadsword UAS is a much larger derivative of the MQM-170A Outlaw and is currently available for US military operations as the MQM-171A. The Broadsword is a 400-500 lbs. gross weight aircraft in contrast to the Outlaw G1, which is a 120 lbs. gross vehicle. It was developed as a research and test vehicle to evaluate new sensors, payloads, propulsion systems and other UAV components. Broadsword is a large capable aircraft ideal for emerging sensor or payload development missions.

The Broadsword is very similar in shape and general layout to the Outlaw G1. Like the G1, it is primarily launched from a larger pneumatic launcher and then recovered by skid landing. Also like its little brother G1, the Broadsword can be equipped with optional landing gear for sensitive payloads. The Broadsword is also used as a test bed for new or upgraded high power propulsion systems.

The increased size of the Broadsword allows customers to carry large, heavy payloads that would not have been achievable with the Outlaw G1..
The Outlaw G1 is The Outlaw G1 was the aircraft that placed Griffon Aerospace on the map as a competitive Unmanned Aerial System manufacturer. The Outlaw was designed to satisfy a proposal for the US Army to produce a low-cost and versatile UAS platform. Griffon won the contract and in 2004 the Outlaw G1 became known to US military as the MQM-170A Remotely Piloted Vehicle Target (RPVT). Outlaw G1 has proven itself to be a tough, reliable, and low-cost platform through extensive operations with the US Army, US Navy, US Marine Corps, US Air Force, and even some Foreign Military Sales customers. Based on the great success as a target, the Outlaw G1 was developed further to fill various roles including ISR and flight training.

The shape and material properties of the G1 yield low radar observability characteristics. Payload bays are available for integration of specialized payloads or the standard suite of EO/IR sensors. The bays can be configured interchangeably as fuel or sensor bays thereby exchanging mission endurance for payload capacity.

The rugged composite airframe was designed for harsh field conditions and ease of repair. The airframe can be used with or without a landing gear. Outlaw G1 extensively uses readily available, off-the-shelf flight control and system components. The G1 is typically launched from a pneumatic launcher and then it is recovered by skid landing. If equipped with optional landing gear, the Outlaw can be operated from a runway to protect valuable or delicate payloads.

Outlaw G1: the original affordable, multi-function UAS platform from Griffon Aerospace..
The Outlaw G2 is The Outlaw G2, aka MQM-170C, is the successor to the Outlaw G1. It is currently the basic UAS platform for the US military RPVT contracts as well as development in the Griffon Outlaw family.

The G2 uses the same reliable engine, radio and autopilot control systems, servos, and other key components from the G1. Griffon has integrated those components into a larger, and more aerodynamically efficient fuselage. The G2 also flies with a brand new, structurally superior wing design. The key benefits of the new aircraft are enhanced visual signature, a 50% increase in payload area, twice the endurance, added maneuverability, and a top speed increase of 20%.

The G2 is operated from an inexpensive pneumatic launcher, similar to the launcher for the original Outlaw G1 RPVT.

The Outlaw G2 was designed for all types of customers. G2 can serve as a low-cost, reliable, target vehicle with an enhanced visual signature and increased hit area; or the G2 can be an inexpensive payload development platform offering great endurance, payload size, weight and power.

Outlaw G2 is the affordable jack-of-all-trades from Griffon Aerospace..
The Lionheart is Lionheart began as the personal, passion-driven project of Larry French. Stemming from his admiration of the vintage Beechcraft Model 17 Staggerwing, Larry set himself on a journey to recreate the 1930’s era legend by using modern aircraft production techniques. The maiden flight was on July 27, 1997. Just a few days later Lionheart made its public debut at EAA AirVenture Oshkosh. Within 9 months five kits were sold. A dream-turned-reality coincidentally seated Mr. French firmly in the owner’s seat of a brand new company: Griffon Aerospace.

Lionheart is a Cabin Class aircraft measuring about 20 feet from firewall to rudder. Due to the compact shape of the stagger wing, it can be constructed in a relatively small space. Interior cabin volume and seating is similar to a Piper Malibu, but wider at the shoulders. The primary structure is made of high-temperature carbon fiber composite molded in precision production tooling. Since the composite build offers so much rigidity Griffon was able to forgo wing uprights, which results in a very slick and eye-catching overall shape. The heartbeat comes from the well-proven and powerful Pratt & Whitney R-985 Wasp Jr. radial engine..

Here is System information for the Outlaw Seahunter American Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is Outlaw Seahunter.
The Type is Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is Griffon Aerospace.
The Crew is Unmanned.

Here is Dimensions information for the Outlaw Seahunter American Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is 3.0 m.
The Wingspan is 4.9 m.
The Weight is 86 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Outlaw Seahunter American Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is 2 x 3W Model Engines.
The Engine Type is 2 x 3W Model 150i two-cylinder two-stroke Reciprocating engine.
The Engine Power is 17 hp.
The Maximum Speed is 241 km/h.
The Maximum Distance is INA.
The Ceiling is 5,500 m.
The Endurance is standard: 4 h; max: 8–9 h.

