This document describes the 67N6E Gamma-D Russian Towed Long-Range 3D Acquisition and Air Surveillance Radar.

67N6E «Gamma-D» (Cyrillic: 67Н6Е «Гамма-Д») is a mobile, operating in D-Band solid-state, long-range 3D acquisition and air surveillance radar, designed for use as part of automated and non-automated air defense and air force control systems. The radar can also be used for air traffic control and is with its export version probably an S-400 (Nato-Designator: S-21 “Growler”) battery component option.

The radar comprises an active phased-array antenna with the turntable, an operator’s cabin housing electronic equipment and spare parts, tools and accessories set, a diesel power plant with two diesel-generators, and a self-contained power source for the operator’s cabin. The radar’s antenna and the turntable may be mounted on a semi-mobile tower (radar deployment platform 40V6M) with a height of 23.8 m.

A remote control equipment kit can be provided for setting up at command posts to ensure radar operation at a distance of up to 15 km away with data link coupling. The kit also allows the crew to operate from the cabin moved 1 000 m away from the rotating antenna. The radar is fitted with a built-in automatic test and monitoring equipment, automatic fire-alarm and fire-extinguishing systems, air conditioning, and other technical support assets.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is System information for the 67N6E Gamma-D Russian Towed Long-Range 3D Acquisition and Air Surveillance Radar:
The Alternative Designation is 67N6E Gamma-D.
The Type is Towed Long-Range 3D Acquisition and Air Surveillance Radar.
The Crew is INA.
The Frequency is D-Band.
The Average Power is 12.5 kW.
The Instrumental Range is 400 km.
The Range Resolution is 300 m.
The Accuracy is 100 m; 0.2°.
The Beamwidth is 1.35°.
The Antenna Rotation is 6 min-1.
The MTBCF is 1 000 hrs.
The Note is 67N6E «Gamma-D» is a mobile, operating in D-Band solid-state, long-range 3D acquisition and air surveillance radar, designed for use as part of automated and non-automated air defense and air force control systems. The radar can also be used for air traffic control and is with its export version probably an S-400 (Nato-Designator: S-21 “Growler”) battery component option..

Here is Dimensions information for the 67N6E Gamma-D Russian Towed Long-Range 3D Acquisition and Air Surveillance Radar:
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Weight, Combat is INA.

