This document describes the DP-14 Hawk American Autonomous Unmanned Helicopter.

The DP-14 Hawk is a heavy-lift variant of the DP-6 Whisper designed for missions such as air supply to forward in operation bases. it's designed to hold up to 430 lb (195 kg) of payload in its twenty six cu ft (0.7 copper m) of cargo area or external hardpoints. It will reportedly fly for about 2.4 hours with a 430-lb payload or 4.3 hours with a 100-lb (45-kg) payload. The DP-14 will operate in crosswinds of up to forty knots (74 kmh).
The air vehicle would be powered by either AN 87-hp star T62 engine or a 133-hp Microturbo eAPU rotary engine and is intended to use either JP-5 or JP-8 significant fuel. The power plant would generate 4.2 kW of power for avionics and sensors.
The DP-14 Hawk uses aboard measuring system and advanced algorithms to navigate in complicated, restricted environments, as well as advanced intelligence for path coming up with, course corrections, perception, obstacle dodging and landing-site choice. These capabilities permit the air vehicle to fly intelligent, autonomous, non-line-of-sight, nap-of-the-earth missions and dynamically adapt to changes on the wing conditions and terrain, according to Dragonfly Pictures.
The system employs imu and GPS for takeoff and landing and an supersonic sensing element as a measuring device to see height from the bottom throughout landing. These sensors allow landings even in brownouts or different degraded visual environments.
The air vehicle is equipped with 2 side-mounted pods for over-sized things.
The unmanned chopper features one ms autopilot cycling and speedy pitch correction throughout autonomous cargo offloading, that permits precision airdrops with accuracy of higher than 10 ft (3 m). It needs a landing site measurement regarding 60 ft (18 m) x 60 ft (18 m).
All-terrain undercarriage supports landings on uneven ground; slopes of up to 15 degrees; and heaving ship decks. A relative positioning system permits the DP-14 to self-launch and self-recover on pitching ships with an 8-in (203-mm) circular error probable.
The system is assembled, readied and launched inside half-hour.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the DP-14 Hawk American Autonomous Unmanned Helicopter:
The DP-6XT Whisper is This upgraded variant, the present production model, features a most payload of fifteen pound (7 kg). The air vehicle will operate in crosswinds of up to forty knots (74 kmh).
The DP-6XT has associate degree endurance of half-hour with a 15-lb payload and a 60-minute endurance with a two.2 pound (1 kg) payload. It may be deployed in quarter-hour.

Batteries may be recharged in quarter-hour or swapped in three minutes. The air vehicle may be bound to associate degree surface power supply for constant 24/7 operation. A 200-ft (60-m) tether is out there as associate degree possibility.

The air vehicle will give a mobile impromptu Wi-Fi network or close-range stable representational process.

The system may be operated by one person and offers easy waypoint navigation.

Payload options embody external hardpoints; directional mike and speaker; electro-optical/infrared day or night detector with three-axis stabilization with a optical device illuminator; and a high-bandwidth encrypted communication link.

The DP-6XT options exactness management through autonomous flight path programming; nap of the world flight even in complicated terrain; non-line-of-sight flight, together with in GPS-denied environments; autonomous operation; and a little profile..
The DP-12 Rhino is This is a bigger version designed to hold payloads of as much as a hundred and fifty lb (70 kg) over distances of as much as 350 mi (560 km). It can fly in crosswinds of as much as 30 knots (fifty six kmh).
The unmanned helicopter has an persistence of approximately 1 hour with a a hundred and fifty-lb payload or three hours with a 32-lb (15-kg) payload.

The air car functions more than one hardpoints forward, aft, to the edges and at the stomach to hold quite a few payloads. Typical payloads consist of cameras; artificial aperture radar; ultra-wideband radar; LIDAR; electro-optical/infrared sensors; magnetometers; ground-penetrating radar; mapping packages; acoustic and ultrasonic sensors; and steady verbal exchange relays and links.

The DP-12 may be released in 5 mins if organized at the touchdown pad and the flight route is already programmed. It can release in 10 mins from a chilly begin and the flight route is programmed. Launch from a chilly begin takes approximately 15 mins if a brand new flight route need to be programmed..
The DP-14 Hawk is This is a heavy-raise variation designed for missions inclusive of air deliver to ahead working bases. It is designed to hold as much as 430 lb (195 kg) of payload in its 26 cu ft (0.7 cu m) of shipment area or outside hardpoints. It can reportedly fly for approximately 2.4 hours with a 430-lb payload or four.three hours with a 100-lb (45-kg) payload. The DP-14 can perform in crosswinds of as much as forty knots (seventy four kmh).
The air automobile could be powered with the aid of using both an 87-hp Solar T62 engine or a 133-hp Microturbo eAPU turbine and is designed to apply both JP-five or JP-eight heavy fuel. The power plant could generate four.2 kW of strength for avionics and sensors.

The DP-14 Hawk makes use of onboard LIDAR and superior algorithms to navigate in complex, restrained environments, inclusive of superior intelligence for course planning, path corrections, perception, impediment avoidance and touchdown-webweb page selection. These competencies permit the air automobile to fly intelligent, self sustaining, non-line-of-sight, nap-of-the-earth missions and dynamically adapt to adjustments in flight situations and terrain, in accordance to Dragonfly Pictures.

The machine employs IMU and GPS for takeoff and touchdown and an ultrasonic sensor as a rangefinder to decide peak from the floor at some point of touchdown. These sensors allow landings even in brownouts or different degraded visible environments.

The air automobile may be ready with side-established pods for over-sized items.

The unmanned helicopter functions 1 ms autopilot biking and fast pitch correction at some point of self sustaining shipment offloading, which permits precision airdrops with accuracy of higher than 10 ft (three m). It calls for a touchdown webweb page measuring approximately 60 ft (18 m) x 60 ft (18 m).

All-terrain touchdown tools helps landings on choppy floor; slopes of up to fifteen degrees; and heaving deliver decks. A relative positioning machine lets in the DP-14 to self-release and self-get better on pitching ships with an eight-in (203-mm) round mistakes probable.

The machine may be assembled, readied and released inside 30 minutes..

Here is System information for the DP-14 Hawk American Autonomous Unmanned Helicopter:
The Alternate Designation is DP-14 Hawk.
The Type is Autonomous Unmanned Helicopter.
The Manufacturer is Dragonfly Pictures, Essington, Pa..

Here is Dimensions information for the DP-14 Hawk American Autonomous Unmanned Helicopter:
The Length is 4.11 m.
The Width is 0.61 m.
The Height is INA.
The Cargo Length is 1.83 m.
The Cargo Width is 0.51 m.
The Cargo Volume is 0.7 cu m.
The Combat Weight is INA.
The Payload Capacity is 195 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the DP-14 Hawk American Autonomous Unmanned Helicopter:
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is INA.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 190 km/h.
The Cruising Speed is 130 km/h.
The Maximum Range is 80 km.
The Ceiling is 4,570 m.
The Climb Rate is 150 m/min.
The Endurance Payload 195 kg is 2.4 Hours.
The Endurance payload 45.4 kg is 4.3 Hours.

