This document describes the Kel-Tec KSG American 12-Gauge Pump-Action Shotgun.

The Kel-Tec KSG is a bullpup 12-gauge pump-action shotgun designed by Kel-Tec. It has two tube magazines which the user of the gun can switch between manually. Each tube holds a total of seven 2.75-inch (70 mm) 12-gauge shotshells or six 3-inch (76 mm) shotshells. Kel-Tec has also introduced a larger variant, called the KSG25, which holds 24+1 rounds to the originals 14+1 rounds.

Barrel locking is achieved by a swinging wedge, located inside the top of the bolt, which engages the barrel extension. The sliding forend is connected to the bolt by dual operating bars. The ammunition feed is from two independent tubular magazines, located below the barrel.

The user is required to manually select a magazine by switching a three-position lever, located behind the pistol grip. The middle position of the switch blocks the feed from both magazines and allows the user to chamber a single round manually. Switching the lever to one side brings the respective magazine into the feed cycle. Once one magazine is depleted, the user manually switches to the second magazine by pushing the magazine selection lever toward it, or the user can load each magazine with a different type of load, and use the selector to choose the desired load when required. For example, one magazine can be loaded with buckshot, the second with slugs. The selector can be used to switch between the two types (although this will require the user to either fire the round already chambered, or to eject it unfired in order to chamber the new type, unless the chamber is already empty).

Rounds are loaded into the magazines through a large loading/ejection port, located at the bottom of the gun in the stock, behind the pistol grip. Empty shells are ejected down through the same port. A manual safety is available in the form of the cross-bolt button, located above the grip, making the gun fully ambidextrous in use. Sighting equipment (iron sights and/or red dot sights) can be installed using the standard Picatinny rail located above the barrel. A second Picatinny rail is provided at the bottom of the sliding forend, permitting installation of other accessories.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

Here is System information for the Kel-Tec KSG American 12-Gauge Pump-Action Shotgun:
The Alternate Designation(s) is Kel-Tec KSG.
The Primary Function / Type is Bullpup 12-gauge pump-action shotgun.
The Manufacturer is Kel-Tec CNC Industries Inc..
The Caliber is 12-Gauge.
The Action is Pump-Action.
The Feed System is 7+7+1 (2¾") dual internal tube.
The Sights is Iron sights are not standard.
The Note is The initial release of the KSG had a mixed reception with some having flawless experiences and others having various issues ranging from the selector switch breaking to double feeding. Kel-Tec quickly released a second generation addressing these issues while also offering to upgrade 1st generation KSGs with the second generation improvements for free. Other improvements to the KSG on the 2nd generation include a trigger reset, small shell tube peep holes, and a fix of the action release to be easier to use and ambidextrous..

Here is Dimensions information for the Kel-Tec KSG American 12-Gauge Pump-Action Shotgun:
The Length is 66.
The Barrel Length is 47.
The Height is 18.
The Weight is 3.1.

Here is Ammunition information for the Kel-Tec KSG American 12-Gauge Pump-Action Shotgun:
The Cartrdige is 12 gauge (3" shells).

