This document describes the 9M113 Konkurs (AT-5 Spandrel) Russian Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM).

HEZBOLLAH Proliferation. The 9M113 Konkurs (Contest) anti-tank guided missile system entered service in 1974 and was given the NATO codename of AT-5 'Spandrel'. It has been license-produced in various countries. Although production of the 9M113 Konkurs continues, it is assessed that the replacement for the system will be the Kornet laser-guided missile system.

The missile is designed to be fired from vehicles, although it can also be fired from the later models of 9M111 launchers. It is an integral part of the BMP-2, BMD-2, and BRDM-2 vehicles. The missile is stored and carried in a fiberglass container/launch tube.

The system uses a gas generator to push the missile out of the launch tube. The gas also exits from the rear of the launch tube in a similar manner to a recoilless rifle. The missile leaves the launch tube at 80 meters per second and is quickly accelerated to 200 meters per second by its solid-fuel motor. This initial high speed reduces the missile's dead zone since it can be launched directly at the target, rather than in an upward arc. In flight, the missile spins at between five and seven revolutions per second.

The launcher tracks the position of an incandescent infrared bulb on the back of the missile relative to the target and transmits appropriate commands to the missile via a thin wire that trails behind the missile. The system has an alarm that activates when it detects jamming from a system like Shtora. The operator can then take manual control, reducing the missile to MCLOS. The SACLOS guidance system has many benefits over MCLOS. The system's accuracy is quoted in some sources as 90%, though its performance is probably comparable to the BGM-71 TOW or later SACLOS versions of the 9K11 Malyutka.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Algeria, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cuba, Czech Republic, Egypt, Eritrea, Finland, Georgia, Guinea, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ivory Coast, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Mongolia, Morocco, Non-State Actors, North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Pakistan, Peru, Romania, Russian Federation, Slovakia, Syria, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Viet Nam.

Here is Variants information for the 9M113 Konkurs (AT-5 Spandrel) Russian Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The 9M113 Konkurs (Missile) is NATO: AT-5 Spandrel, AT-5A Spandrel A..
The 9M113M Konkurs-M (Missile) is NATO: AT-5B Spandrel B, Tandem warhead - with the extended explosive probe. The warhead penetration is 750–800 mm vs RHA..
The Towsan-1, Tosan, Towsan, or M113 is Iranian-built missile. Iranian licensed 9M113M Konkurs-M (AT-5B Spandrel B) copy. Introduced in early 2000. Unconfirmed if still in production. Used primarily by paratroopers and armored vehicles..
The 9N131M1 is Upgraded Warhead Charge Designation..
The 9N131M2-1 is Upgraded Warhead Charge Designation (Latest improvement)..

Here is Dimensions information for the 9M113 Konkurs (AT-5 Spandrel) Russian Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The Length is 1,150 mm.
The Diameter is 135 mm.
The Wingspan is 468 mm.
The Warhead Weight is 2.7 kg.
The Weight (Missile) is 14.6 kg.
The Weight (9P135 Launching Post) is 22.5 kg.

