This document describes the RPO-A Shmel Russian 93mm Disposable Rocket Launcher.

The RPO-A Shmel (Russian: реактивный пехотный огнемёт-А Шмель (РПО-А Шмель), Rocket-propelled Infantry Flamethrower-A Bumblebee) is a man-portable disposable rocket launcher, although it is classified as a flamethrower by its manufacturer KBP.

The Shmel is designed, produced, and exported by the Russian Federation and previously by the Soviet Union. It entered service with the Soviet Armed Forces at the end of the 1980s as the successor to the RPO Rys.

The RPO-A is a single-shot, self-contained tube-shaped launcher that operates much like some RPG and LAW rocket launchers, a sealed tube, carried in a man-pack in pairs. The same person can remove the tube, place it in a firing position, and launch the weapon without assistance. After launch, the tube is discarded. All models are externally similar.

Each weapon contains a single rocket, of which there are three varieties. The basic rocket is the RPO-A, which has a thermobaric warhead and is designed for attacking soft targets under moderate cover. The RPO-Z is the incendiary warhead (Rus. зажигательный / Zazhigatel'nyy, Incendiary) designed to spread fire and ignite targets. There is a smoke-producing warhead (Rus. дымовой / Dymovoy, Smoke) offered, the RPO-D.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Afghanistan, Belarus, China, Congo, Fiji, Georgia, Hong Kong, India, Kazakhstan, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Syria, Ukraine, Viet Nam.

Here is Variants information for the RPO-A Shmel Russian 93mm Disposable Rocket Launcher:
The Shmel-M/PDM-A Priz is This is a reusable upgrade system adopted
in the Russian Army in 2003 to replace the disposable RPO-A. It Includes a reusable mini- grip-stock launcher, with a reflex sight and pistol grip.
Disposable canisters (with munitions) slide on and serve as the launcher tubes. The Shmel-M is more powerful (50
% more blast = 152/155-mm cannon round) and lighter in weight than RPO-A. Range is 800m, 300m direct fire.
Specifications are: caliber 90 mm, length 940 mm, weight 8.8 kg for 2.  In time
other canister fills (e.g., smoke and incendiary) will be available.  Standard issue
(2 grenades per launcher) is more compact than 2 RPO-A launchers.
.
The PF-97 is Chinese licensed copy of RPO-A, with optical sight
mounted on some launchers.
.

Here is Dimensions information for the RPO-A Shmel Russian 93mm Disposable Rocket Launcher of the System:
The Length  is Launcher: 920 mm
Rocket: 700mm.
The Weight is 11.

Here is Ammunition (Option 1) information for the RPO-A Shmel Russian 93mm Disposable Rocket Launcher of the Ammunition:
The Name is RPO-A.
The Type is Thermobaric-flammable mixture
.
The Caliber is 93.
The Burn Temperation  is 800+.
The Casualty Area  is 50 m2(personnel in the open); 80 m3 (enclosed space).
The Weight, Mixture is 2.1.
The Notes is The RPO-A is
known as the infantryman’s
pocket artillery because the
demolition effect corresponds
to 122-mm HE artillery, and
120-mm mortar projectile. It
can buckle armor, penetrate
rubber seals and enter
openings in vehicles, injure or
kill personnel, and collapse
roofs and doors on bunkers
and buildings.
.

Here is Ammunition (Option 2) information for the RPO-A Shmel Russian 93mm Disposable Rocket Launcher of the Ammunition:
The Name is RPO-D.
The Type is Smoke-Incendiary Type, Based on red phosphorous..
The Smokescreen Depth and Height   is INA.
The Smokescreen Duration  is 3-5.
The Smokescreen Effective Against is Visual and infrared.
The Smokescreen Length  is 55-90.
The Smokescreen Time of Formation  is 2.0.
The Weight  is 2.3.

Here is Ammunition (Option 3) information for the RPO-A Shmel Russian 93mm Disposable Rocket Launcher of the Ammunition:
The Name is RPO-Z.
The Type is Incendiary.
The Weight, Mixture is 2.5.

Here is Ammunition (Option 4) information for the RPO-A Shmel Russian 93mm Disposable Rocket Launcher of the Ammunition:
The Name is Shmel-M.
The Type is Thermobaric.
The Accuracy is 0.5 m2 at 200 m.
The Combat Load  is 2 x rounds per launcher.
The Direct Fire  is Direct Fire:  200 with iron sight, 850 with optical sight.
The Indirect Fire is 1000.
The Minimum  is 20.
The Muzzle Velocity  is 125.
The Range, Effective  is 600.

Here is Sights information for the RPO-A Shmel Russian 93mm Disposable Rocket Launcher:
The Name is OPO-1.
The Type is Optical calibrated to 600 m
.
The Location is Left, next to grip.
The Magnification is None.

