This document describes the Panzerfaust 3 German 60mm Anti-tank Grenade Launcher (ATGL).

HEZBOLLAH Proliferation. The Panzerfaust 3 (lit. "armor fist" or "tank fist") is a modern disposable recoilless anti-tank weapon, which was developed between 1978 and 1985 and put into service by the Bundeswehr in 1992. It was first ordered in 1973 to provide West German infantry with an effective weapon against contemporary Soviet armour, thereby replacing West Germany's aging PzF 44 Light Lanze launchers and the heavy Carl Gustaf 84 mm anti-tank recoilless rifle manufactured in Sweden. The Panzerfaust 3 is operated by at least 11 countries and has first seen combat in Afghanistan.


The Panzerfaust 3 series of launchers is a compact, lightweight, shoulder-fired, unguided antitank weapon series. It consists of a disposable canister with a 110-mm warhead and reusable firing and sighting device. The DM12 and DM12A1 projectile consists of a shaped-charge warhead and is filled with Octol 7030, while the tandem DM22 warheads are made of PBX octogene (ca. 95% β-HMX) including the propulsion unit. The penetration performance of the Panzerfaust 3 is due to the shaped charge principle and the quick response of the percussion fuze; the effect on the target does not depend on the impact velocity.

The Panzerfaust 3 is light enough to be carried and fired by one person. It can be fired from enclosures since it does not have a significant backblast; the rear of the tube, filled with plastic granulate, minimises the blast effect by the so-called recoilless countermass principle. The booster propellant for the projectile in its tube is ignited by a bolt via a spring mechanism. Once ejected from the launcher, the projectile coasts a safe distance and then the rocket motor is ignited, boosting it to its maximum speed, after which it coasts until impact. The gunner carries at least two rounds, while the assistant grenadier carries an additional three rounds.

As a safety precaution, the built-in fuse for the warhead is released by a safety mechanism. This arms the warhead after a flight distance of approximately five meters. Once armed, the warhead will detonate on impact, and as a safety when the rocket's propellant runs out. This safeguards against live ammunition staying around and causing hazards to all in the future. The Panzerfaust 3 is distributed in a special package including spare parts and a cleaning kit. The package contains a launcher, ejector and spring, extractor, dummy extractor plug, bolt-head retaining pin, plastic cleaning rod with brass tip, bore and chamber brushes, camel's hair brush and a prismatic bore scope. It takes several minutes to assemble and load the launcher.

The ergonomic design of the controls, such as handles, launcher, barrel shape and optical sight, is a predefined standard. All controls are easy to handle in all shooting positions (lying, kneeling or standing). After the weapon is fired, the firing mechanism with the attached optical sight is removed and the barrel thrown away, the firing mechanism is reusable. The effective combat range of Panzerfaust 3 is from 15 to 300 metres against moving targets and from 400 to 600 metres against static ones. An optical sight with line pattern fixed to the reusable firing mechanism enables it to engage moving or static targets. To ensure night combat capability, a night-vision device or residual light amplifier can be set up in front of the optical sight.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Austria, Belgium, Germany, Iraq, Japan, Netherlands, Non-State Actors, Peru, South Korea (Republic of Korea), Switzerland.

Here is Dimensions information for the Panzerfaust 3 German 60mm Anti-tank Grenade Launcher (ATGL):
The Length is 950.
The Weight is * Hollow charge warhead: 12.9 kg (28 lb 7 oz)

* Tandem hollow charge warhead: 13.3 kg (29 lb 5 oz)

* Bunker-buster warhead: 13.3 kg (29 lb 5 oz)

* Unloaded firing unit: 2.3 kg (5 lb 1 oz).

Here is 3-T (Tandem) information for the Panzerfaust 3 German 60mm Anti-tank Grenade Launcher (ATGL) of the Ammunition:
The Type is Tandem HEAT (Pzf 3-T and 3-T600).
The Caliber is 110.
The Effective Range is 600 moving and stationary).
The Armor Penetration is 800 behind ERA.
The Weight is 4.3.
The Muzzle Velocity is 152.
The Flight Velocity is 220.
The Time of Flight to 300 m is INA.

Here is BASTEG (Barricade and Street Encounter Grenade) information for the Panzerfaust 3 German 60mm Anti-tank Grenade Launcher (ATGL) of the Ammunition:
The Type is Shaped-charge w/stand-off fuze.
The Caliber is 110.
The Range is 11 to 600.
The Penetration is 15 armor at 45, 920 sandbag, 256 concrete.
The Weight is 4.3.
The Time of Flight to 300 m is INA.

Here is 3-IT (Improved Tandem) information for the Panzerfaust 3 German 60mm Anti-tank Grenade Launcher (ATGL) of the Ammunition:
The Type is Tandem HEAT/HESH (Dual-mode) on Pzf 3-IT600 With nose retracted, HESH mode has greater effects against APCs, material targets, etc..
The Caliber is 110.
The Effective Range is 600 moving and stationary.
The Armor Penetration is 900+ behind ERA, with nose extended; 1,150 conventional, with nose extended.
The Weight is 5.4.
The Muzzle Velocity is 152.
The Flight Velocity is 220.
The Time of Flight to 300 m is INA.

Here is Other Grenades information for the Panzerfaust 3 German 60mm Anti-tank Grenade Launcher (ATGL) of the Ammunition:
The Description is See above. The new 3LWD multipurpose grenade has a shaped charge and HE/anti-armor effects of a high-explosive squash-head (HESH) round..

Here is DynaRange information for the Panzerfaust 3 German 60mm Anti-tank Grenade Launcher (ATGL) of the Sights:
The Type is Computer laser rangefinder (LRF) sight.
The Magnification is 1x/3.5.
The Location is Left side.
The Night Sights Available is Yes, KN-250 series II.
The Note is Day sight can be used with Simrad GN1 NVG..

