This document describes the Franchi SPAS-15 Italian 12-Gauge Shotgun.

The Franchi SPAS-15 is a dual-mode 12 gauge combat shotgun manufactured by the Italian company Luigi Franchi S.P.A. 

The weapon is based on the SPAS-12, and has similar pump-action/semi-automatic firing modes. In semi-automatic mode a gas piston drives a bolt carrier and rotating bolt. In pump-action mode the same components are driven by sliding the fore-end backwards. Pump-action mode is required to reliably fire low-pressure (less lethal) ammunition such as tear gas rounds or less-lethal bean bags. Switching between firing modes is done by pressing a button above the foregrip, and sliding the foregrip slightly forwards or backwards. The barrel is chrome lined and features screw-in choke tubes.

Unlike its predecessor, the SPAS-15 is fed by a detachable box magazine. The gun features either a fixed black wooden stock, or a side folding metal stock. Both had the same pistol grip safety. Amongst Italian troops the weapon is known by the nickname "La Chiave dell'Incursore" (the key of the commando) because it is used to blast the locks of closed doors.


In 1994, the United States banned the importation of the SPAS-15 with close to 180 shotguns imported, but later abolished the relevant regulations. In Canada, the SPAS-15 is classified as a Prohibited Weapon and cannot be legally owned or imported except under very limited circumstances. In Italy the SPAS-15 is not subject to any kind of restriction for sale, purchase or possession, and despite no longer being in production it is still fairly common on the civilian market.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Argentina, Belarus, Brazil, Israel, Italy, Portugal, Tunisia.

Here is System information for the Franchi SPAS-15 Italian 12-Gauge Shotgun:
The Alternate Designation(s) is Franchi SPAS-15.
The Primary Function / Type is Shotgun.
The Manufacturer is Franchi.
The Action is Pump-action/gas-actuated, rotating bolt.
The Rate of Fire is Semi-automatic.
The Effective Firing Range is 40.
The Feed System is 3, 6 or 8-round detachable box magazine.
The Sights is INA.

Here is Dimensions information for the Franchi SPAS-15 Italian 12-Gauge Shotgun:
The Length, Stock Extended is 1,000.
The Length, Stock Folded is 750.
The Barrel Length is 450.
The Weight is 3.9.

Here is Ammunition information for the Franchi SPAS-15 Italian 12-Gauge Shotgun:
The Cartridge is 12-gauge.

