This document describes the SBR-3 (IRL 136) Russian Man-Portable Short-Range Ground-Surveillance Radar.

The IRL 136, also known as the SBR-3, is a short-range, ground-surveillance, man portable-Doppler radar used to track moving targets including vehicles and personnel. The system consists of a power and control unit; flat-array antenna/transmitter, which can be remoted from the former during operations; battery pack; a scanning device; headphones; support cabling; and associated mounting frames and devices. The total system, which weighs about 40 lbs (18.3 kg), can be packaged in a backpack, and is capable of being carried by one soldier.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Bulgaria, Russian Federation.

Here is Variants information for the SBR-3 (IRL 136) Russian Man-Portable Short-Range Ground-Surveillance Radar:
The IRL-136/SBR-3 Fara is Russian-built version..
The SSBR-3 Fara is Version built by Kintex of Bulgaria..

Here is System information for the SBR-3 (IRL 136) Russian Man-Portable Short-Range Ground-Surveillance Radar:
The Alternative Designation is SBR-3 Fara; IRL 136.
The Type is Man-Portable Short-Range Ground-Surveillance Radar.
The Crew is 1.
The Manufacturer is Strela Research Institute, Russia (design)
 Rosvoorouzhenie (IRL-136) (Russian state export company), Russia
 Kintex, Bulgaria (under license as the Kintex Fara SSBR-3).
The Band is J (10-20 GHz).
The Emitted Power is 5 W.
The Power Consumption is 50 W.
The Coverage Area is 6 sq km.
The Detection Range, Personnel is 2 km.
The Detection Range, Vehicles is 4 km.
The Moving Target Velocity Range is 0.55 to 13.9 m/sec.
The Resolution Azimuth is 00-67 mils.
The Resolution Range is 100 m.
The Mean Time Between Failure (MTBF) is 1,000 hours.

Here is Dimensions information for the SBR-3 (IRL 136) Russian Man-Portable Short-Range Ground-Surveillance Radar:
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Weight, Combat is 18.3 kg.
The Note is can be packaged in a backpack, and is capable of being carried by one soldier..

