This document describes the Wisent 2 German Armored Recovery Vehicle.

WISENT 2 is one of the world’s most advanced multi-functional armored support vehicle, which can be used as an armored recovery vehicle (ARV) or an armored engineer vehicle (AEV). Developed by Flensburger Fahrzeugbau Gesellschaft (FFG), the vehicle is based on the combat-proven Leopard 2 main battle tank (MBT).

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Germany.

Here is Variants information for the Wisent 2 German Armored Recovery Vehicle:
The Wisent 1 is The Wisent 1 or Bergepanzer Wisent was developed by a German FFG company as a private venture. It is intended mainly for export. It is worth noting that FFG company has considerable experience in the upgrade and overhaul of various armored vehicles. The Wisent 1 evolved from a vehicle, known as the Armored Recovery Vehicle 2000 or ARV 2000..

Here is System information for the Wisent 2 German Armored Recovery Vehicle:
The Alternative Designation is Wisent 2.
The Type is Armored Recovery Vehicle.
The Manufacturer is German FFG company as a private venture.
The Crew is 3.
The Bucket Capacity is 1.3 m³.
The Dig Depth is 4.4 m.
The Lifting Capacity is 32 t.
The Winch Capacity is 40 t.
The Towed Load is 62 t.
The Earth Working Capacity (Dozer) is 400 m³/h.
The Earth Working Capacity (Excavator Arm) is 260-300 m³/h.
The Note is The Wisent 2 is an unusual multi-purpose vehicle. It can be reconfigured from Armored Engineer Vehicle (AEV) to Armored Recovery Vehicle (ARV) in less than 5 hours. The whole concept behind this vehicle is a modular platform, that can be fitted with various add-on and interchangeable equipment..

Here is Dimensions information for the Wisent 2 German Armored Recovery Vehicle:
The Length is 10.5 m.
The Width is 3.54 m.
The Height is 3.1 m.
The Weight is 57 t.

Here is Automotive information for the Wisent 2 German Armored Recovery Vehicle:
The Engine Name is MTU MB 873 Ka501.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 1 500.
The Transmission is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 65 km/h.
The Range is 650 km.
The Gradient is 60%.
The Side Slope is 30%.
The Vertical Step is 1.15 m.
The Trench is 3 m.
The Fording is 1 m.

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Wisent 2 German Armored Recovery Vehicle:
The Note is This multi-purpose vehicle can be fitted with remotely-controlled weapon station, armed with a 12.7 mm machine gun for self-defense. This weapon station is optional..

Here is Protection information for the Wisent 2 German Armored Recovery Vehicle:
The Hull Armor is The Wisent 2 is based on the Leopard 2 main battle tank. This combat vehicle also has a high level of protection against landmines and improvised explosive devices. It withstands blasts equivalent to 10 kg of TNT under any track location or anywhere under the hull. Interior is lined with a spall liner..
The Applique Armor is Available.
The Mine Clearing is Yes,  Add-on passive, or reactive explosive armor can be fitted for even higher level of protection..
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is No.

