This document describes the Harpy Israeli Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The IAI Harpy is a loitering munition produced by Israel Aerospace Industries. The Harpy is designed to attack radar systems and is optimized for the suppression of enemy air defense (SEAD) role. It carries a high explosive warhead. 

HARPY is a lethal UAV designed to detect, attack, and destroy radar emitters. 
Harpy is a "Fire-and-Forget" all-weather, day/night autonomous weapon system, launched from a ground vehicle behind the battle zone or from ship-based launchers.

HARPY effectively suppresses hostile SAM and radar sites for a long duration, by detecting, attacking, and destroying radar targets with a very high hit accuracy. 

HARPY provides the most effective solution to the hostile radar problem, at the lowest price. HARPY is in production, is already operational with several nations' Air Forces, and is currently available.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China, Israel, South Korea (Republic of Korea), Turkey.

Here is Variants information for the Harpy Israeli Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Cutlass is This variant of the Harpy was evaluated in 1999 with Raytheon for search-and-destroy missions and the ability to attack a wider range of targets. It would have been a sea-launched weapon employing advanced sensors from Raytheon.
The Harop/Harpy 2 is This is a larger, upgraded variant. Designed as a fire-and-forget weapon, the Harop can fly more than 600 mi (1,000 km) to patrol a specific area and attack any hostile radars detected..
The Harpy NG (new generation) is This is an upgraded variant that uses the Harop airframe. It was developed to counter newer air defense radar threats..
The Mini-Harpy is This tactical loitering munition combines the operating characteristics of the Harpy and Harop. It can lock onto radar and other emitting threats via person-in-the-loop electro-optical guidance. Fully autonomous operation is available as an option. It can attack emitting and non-emitting targets..
The Maritime Harop is This is a variant of the Harop optimized for operation from naval vessels, from patrol ships to frigates. It features a maritime-configured launcher and modified communications..
The ASN-301 is This is a Chinese copy of the Harpy. It has a delta wing and pusher propeller configuration that appears virtually identical to the Israeli system. According to the China National Aero-Technology Import & Export Corp. (CATIC), the ASN-301 targets radar frequencies in the 2-16 GHz range and has a radar search range of 16 mi (25 km). The system is said to be able to target up to eight preset radar targets..

Here is System information for the Harpy Israeli Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is Harpy.
The Type is Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is Israel Aerospace Industries, Ben Gurion International Airport, Israel.
The Crew is Unmanned.

Here is Dimensions information for the Harpy Israeli Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is 2.10 m.
The Wingspan is 2.41 m.
The Warhead Weight is 18 kg.
The Takeoff Weight is 114 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Harpy Israeli Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is 1 x UEL AR731.
The Engine Type is Rotary Engine.
The Engine Power is 37 hp (28 kW).
The Maximum Speed is 417 kph.
The Maximum Range is 500 km.
The Ceiling is 4,570 m.
The Endurance is 9 hours.

Here is Fire Control and Avionics information for the Harpy Israeli Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Communication Maximum Range is 200 km.
The Radar Name is INA.
The Radar Distance is INA.
The Radar Cross-Section is <0.5 sq m.

