This document describes the R-60 (AA-8 Aphid) Russian Short-Range Infrared Homing Air-to-Air Missile.

The Molniya (now Vympel) R-60 (NATO reporting name: AA-8 "Aphid") is a short-range lightweight infrared homing air-to-air missile designed for use by Soviet fighter aircraft. It has been widely exported, and remains in service with the CIS and many other nations.

The R-60 was initially developed for the MiG-23. Work began on the weapon, under the bureau designation K-60 (izdeliye 62), in the late 1960s. Series production began in 1973. It entered service with the designation R-60 (NATO reporting name "Aphid-A").

When introduced, the R-60 was one of the world's lightest air-to-air missiles, with a launch weight of 44 kg (97 lb). It has infrared guidance, with an uncooled Komar (Mosquito) seeker head. Control is by forward rudders with large rear fins. The distinctive canards on the nose, known as "destabilizers," serve to improve the rudders' efficiency at high angles of attack. The R-60 uses a small, 3 kg (6.6 lb) tungsten expanding-rod surrounding a high explosive fragmentation warhead. Two different types of proximity fuze can be fitted: the standard Strizh (Swift) optical fuse, which can be replaced with a Kolibri active radar fuse. Missiles equipped with the latter fuse were designated R-60K.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Algeria, Angola, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cuba, Georgia, India, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Libya, Malaysia, North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Peru, Poland, Romania, Russian Federation, Serbia, Slovakia, Syria, Ukraine, Viet Nam.

Here is R-60 Infrared Homing Air-to-Air Missile information for the R-60 (AA-8 Aphid) Russian Short-Range Infrared Homing Air-to-Air Missile of the System:
The Name is R-60.
The Type is Infrared Homing Air-to-Air Missile.
The Manufacturer is Vympel.
The Length is 2,090 mm.
The Diameter is 120 mm.
The Wingspan is 390 mm.
The Warhead is 3 kg.
The Detonation mechanism is proximity.
The Operational Range is 8 km.
The Flight Altitude is 20,000 m.
The Maximum Speed is Mach 2.7.
The Guidance System is Infrared homing.

