This document describes the KJ-500 Chinese Airborne Early Warning and Control Aircraft.

The KJ-500 (Chinese: literally: "Air Warning 500") is a third-generation airborne early warning and control (AEW&C) aircraft used by the Chinese People's Liberation Army Air Force. It was built by Shaanxi Aircraft Corporation., and is based on the Y-9 airframe.

Since the beginning of the 21st century, the detection range and the accuracy of airborne radars has been increasing, fighters equipped with various types of air-to-air missiles and low-altitude cruise missiles continue to improve in performance, creating a demand for a more capable AEW&C. To address the above issues, China started the development of the KJ-500, its third AEW&C, in the late 2000s. The KJ-500 was required to have three important features, which are good detection capability, good identification ability, and quick responsiveness. The KJ-500 was also required to the core force of the informatized combat system, its equipped technology has four major characteristics which are networking, multi-functionality, high-integration and light weight.

The aircraft carries a fixed dorsal radome containing three AESA radar arrays for 360 degree coverage, and is said to be more efficient than the two-planar 'balance beam' array design used on the earlier KJ-200. Production of older AEW&C types have reported ceased in 2018 in response to the KJ-500 reaching full operational capability.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is System information for the KJ-500 Chinese Airborne Early Warning and Control Aircraft:
The Alternate Designation(s) is KJ-500; Air Warning 500.
The Primary Function / Type is Airborne Early Warning and Control Aircraft.
The Manufacturer is Shaanxi Aircraft Corporation.
The Crew is 24.
The Number of Engines is 4.
The Number of Hard Points is INA.
The Note #1 is This aircraft has the inherent capability to haul up to 106 passengers, 132 airborne troopers or nine complete palettes of cargo.
The Note #2 is The KJ-500 was also required to the core force of the informatized combat system, its equipped technology has four major characteristics which are networking, multi-functionality, high-integration and light weight..

Here is Dimensions information for the KJ-500 Chinese Airborne Early Warning and Control Aircraft:
The Length is 36 m.
The Width (Wing Span) is 40 m.
The Height is 11.5 m.
The Empty Weight is 40,000 kg.
The Combat Weight is 70,000 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the KJ-500 Chinese Airborne Early Warning and Control Aircraft:
The Engine Name is 4 x Zhuzhou WoJiang-6C (FWJ-6C).
The Number of Engines is 4.
The Engine Type is Turboprop Engines.
The Engine Power is 5,100 horsepower each and driving six-bladed propeller units..
The Maximum Range is 5,700 km.
The Maximum Speed is 550 kph.
The Service Ceiling is 10,500 m.

Here is Fire Control / Avionics information for the KJ-500 Chinese Airborne Early Warning and Control Aircraft:
The FCS Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is No.
The Battle Management System (BMS) is Yes, Coupled with other current Chinese Air Force capabilities, the KJ-500 series platform certainly adds a much-needed modern potent tracking solution for the service. The onboard systems are completely networked into the Chinese Battle Management System (BMS) and reportedly offers good identification, multi-function, and responsiveness qualities..

Here is Radar information for the KJ-500 Chinese Airborne Early Warning and Control Aircraft:
The Name is INA.
The Type is Active Electronically Scanned Array (AESA) Radar.
The Quantity is The aircraft carries a fixed dorsal radome containing three AESA radar arrays for 360 degree coverage, and is said to be more efficient than the two-planar 'balance beam' array design used on the earlier KJ-200..
The Coverage is 360 deg.

Here is Protection information for the KJ-500 Chinese Airborne Early Warning and Control Aircraft:
The Stealth Properties is No.
The Heat Signature Reduction is No.
The Add on Armor is No.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The EW Counter Measures is INA.
The Chaffs/Flares is INA.

