This document describes the RS-28 Sarmat Russian Intercontinental-Range Ballistic Missile .

The RS-28 Sarmat (Russian: РС-28 Сармат, named after the Sarmatians, NATO reporting name SS-X-30) is a Russian liquid-fueled, MIRV equipped, heavy thermonuclear intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM), under development by the Makeyev Rocket Design Bureau since 2009.   It is intended to replace the R-36M ICBM (SS-18 'Satan') in Russia's arsenal. 
The Sarmat is one of the six new Russian strategic weapons unveiled by Russian President Vladimir Putin on 1 March 2018.  One source suggests that the program is being accelerated and will make up 100% of Russia's fixed land-based nuclear arsenal by 2021.
Some sources state that with the range of the RS-28, the missile could be launched to take a south pole trajectory thus avoiding the US's missile defense umbrella.
The RS-28 will be 100 times more powerful than the bomb dropped on Hiroshima and one missile’s payload could destroy France.
A regiment of the 62nd Missile Division, deployed in Uzhur, part of the 33rd Guards Missile Army, headquartered in Omsk in southwestern Siberia, will reportedly receive two silo-based RS-28 ICBMs in 2021 with four more ICBMs delivered the following year.
In total, seven regiments with six missiles in a regiment plus one ten-missile regiment for a total count of 46 RS-28s will be deployed and split up between two missile divisions based in Dombarovskiy and Uzhur.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is System information for the RS-28 Sarmat Russian Intercontinental-Range Ballistic Missile :
The Additional Designation is SS-X-30, PC-28, Capmat, Satan II.
The Range is 18,000 kilometres.
The Launch Platform is Silo.
The Circular Error Probability is 10.

Here is Dimensions information for the RS-28 Sarmat Russian Intercontinental-Range Ballistic Missile :
The Length is 36.
The Diameter is 3.5.
The Weight is 208.
The Speed is 25,500.
The Maximum Warhead Capacity is 10,000.

Here is Warheads (Multiple Independently Targetable re-entry Vehicles) information for the RS-28 Sarmat Russian Intercontinental-Range Ballistic Missile  of the Payload:
The Quantity is Up to 16.
The Note: is Each MIRV, which can be aimed at different targets, has the explosive yield of up to 750 kilotons (Hiroshima was 15 kilotons).

Here is Hypersonic Glide Vehicle (HGV) information for the RS-28 Sarmat Russian Intercontinental-Range Ballistic Missile  of the Payload:
The Name is YU-74 Avangard.
The Quantity is Up to 24.
The Note: is HGVs are capable of carrying a nuclear payload and can travel at 20 times the speed of sound.  Their high speed, low trajectory, and mid-flight maneuverability make it difficult to engage with systems like the US's THAAD..

Here is Fire Control information for the RS-28 Sarmat Russian Intercontinental-Range Ballistic Missile :
The Note: is Inertial guidance, GLONASS, Astro-inertial.

Here is Protection information for the RS-28 Sarmat Russian Intercontinental-Range Ballistic Missile :
The Note: is Like all silo based missiles, the RS-28 is most vulnerable while being transported.  Otherwise, OPSEC of the exact location of the silo and the hardening of the silo itself provide the missile its best protection.  Once the missile is in flight, terrestrial and space based counter-missile systems are the ICBM's greatest threat.  It is expected that the RS-28 will carry countermeasures to defeat these threats..

