This document describes the Cavalry Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).

The Calvary Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) is designed to provide close-range fire support against hostile infantry and light vehicles. The vehicle has been viewed with a modified UW1 remote weapon station (RWS) armed with a 7.62 mm machine gun, detection system, and a pair of unguided Red Arrow 12 (HJ-12) 80 mm anti-tank guided weapons (ATGW).

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is System information for the Cavalry Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Alternative Designation is Cavalry.
The Type is Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).
The Manufacturer is NORINCO.
The Configuration is Tracked.
The Mission is The Cavalry Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) is designed to provide close-range fire support against hostile infantry and light vehicles..
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Control is The Cavalry can be controlled through an operator control unit, a fixed-base control station, or from another vehicle located up to tens of kilometers away..
The Software is The UGV features high levels of autonomy and is capable of three modes of operation: waypoint navigation, teleoperation, and leader/follower..

Here is Dimensions information for the Cavalry Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Weight is 1.2 tons.

Here is Automotive information for the Cavalry Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Electric.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Range is INA.
The Maximum Speed is INA.
The Endurance is INA.

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Cavalry Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Note is The Cavalry Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) has been viewed with a modified UW1 remote weapon station (RWS) armed with a 7.62 mm machine gun, detection system, and a pair of unguided Red Arrow 12 (HJ-12) 80 mm anti-tank guided weapons (ATGW)..

Here is Protection information for the Cavalry Chinese Tracked Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Armor is A side skirt provides protection for the suspension system..
The Applique Armor is INA.

