This document describes the AZK-7M Russian 6x6 Automatic Sound Ranging System.

The AZK-7M automatic sound-ranging system is intended to locate artillery batteries (guns) and mortars from the sound of gunfire and adjust friendly artillery fire from the sound of shell bursts.

The system provides search, direction-finding, and position-finding of the acoustic signal sources in a given zone of surveillance; display of the surveillance results on the monitor of the system commander’s workstation; transmission of the surveillance information to higher authorities over the radio and wired links.

The AZK-7M consists of one central point (CP) and three base points (BP). Its equipment is installed in four Ural-43203 trucks having special K2.4322M van bodies. Three vehicles accommodate equipment of the base points and one vehicle houses the central point.

The main functions of the central point are: to receive telescope messages with the results of the processing of acoustic signals from all the base points of the system over the radio and wired links; to determine the rectangular coordinates of targets when conducting reconnaissance and the rectangular coordinates of shell bursts when adjusting artillery fire; to provide information and technical exchange over the radio and wired links with two external users.

The main functions of the base point are: to deploy two sound stations (SS) on the terrain, with each SS including three sound locators (SL) and power supply; to survey the SS; to measure the surface meteorological parameters; to receive sound signals and determine the time of their arrival at the center of each SS and bearings of detected objects from the center of each SS; to transmit telescope data messages for each SS to the CP of the system over a radio or wired link.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is System information for the AZK-7M Russian 6x6 Automatic Sound Ranging System:
The Alternative Designation is AZK-7M.
The Type is Sound Ranging System.
The Manufacturer is INA.
The Configuration is 6x6.
The Chassis is Ural-43203.
The Mission is The AZK-7M automatic sound ranging system is intended to locate artillery batteries (guns) and mortars from the sound of gunfire and adjust friendly artillery fire from the sound of shell bursts.

The system provides: search, direction finding and position-finding of the acoustic signal sources in a given zone of surveillance; display of the surveillance results on the monitor of the system commander’s workstation; transmission of the surveillance information to higher authorities over radio and wired links..
The Crew is CPs and CPs: 5 each.
The AZK-7m Package is The AZK-7M consists of one central point (CP) and three base points (BP). Its equipment is installed in four Ural-43203 trucks having special K2.4322M van bodies. Three vehicles accommodate equipment of the base points and one vehicle houses the central point..
The Central Points is The main functions of the central point are: to receive telecode messages with the results of the processing of acoustic signals from all the base points of the system over radio and wired links; to determine the rectangular coordinates of targets when conducting reconnaissance and the rectangular coordinates of shell bursts when adjusting artillery fire; to provide information and technical exchange over radio and wired links with two external users..
The Base Point is The main functions of the base point are: to deploy two sound stations (SS) on the terrain, with each SS including three sound locators (SL) and power supply; to survey the SS; to measure the surface meteorological parameters; to receive sound signals and determine the time of their arrival at the center of each SS and bearings of detected objects from the center of each SS; to transmit telecode data messages from each SS to the CP of the system over a radio or wired link..
The Localization Range, Mortars is 5-8 km.
The Localization Range, Artillery Guns is 12-16 km.
The Localization Range, Ground Burst of Shells fired by 122mm and Larger Caliber Guns is 12 km.
The Localization Range, Air Bursts is 12-16 km.
The Surveillance Frontage, Three BPs Deployed is 10-12 km.
The Surveillance Frontage, Two BPs Deployed is 5-6 km.
The Time to Locate a Target is No more than 15 seconds.
The Time to Deploy, using Radio Communications is 1 hour.
The Time to Deploy, using Wire Communications is 2 hour.
The Number Of External Subscribers is 2.
The Range of Robust Wired Communications between CP and BP is Up to 5 km.
The Range of Robust Radio Communications between CP and BP is On the Move: 1 KM
At the Halt: 10 km.

Here is Dimensions (Chassis: Ural-43203) information for the AZK-7M Russian 6x6 Automatic Sound Ranging System:
The Length is 7.37.
The Width is 2.5.
The Height is 4.5.
The Weight, Empty is 8.
The Payload capacity (on road) is 6.
The Payload capacity (off road) is 4.5.
The Maximum Tow Capacity is 12.

Here is Automotive (Chassis: Ural-43203) information for the AZK-7M Russian 6x6 Automatic Sound Ranging System:
The Engine Name is YaMZ-740.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 210.
The Cruising Range is 1,000.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 85.
The Speed, Average Cross is 50.
The Speed Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.
The Gradient is 62.
The Side Slope is 40.
The Vertical Step is 0.55.
The Trench is 1.2.
The Fording Depth is 1.75.

Here is Protection information for the AZK-7M Russian 6x6 Automatic Sound Ranging System:
The Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is Available to protection against small arms fire and artillery shell splinters.
The Active Protection System is No.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is No.
The NBC Protection is Personal CBRN equipment.
The Smoke Equipment is No.
The IR Signature is No.

