This document describes the JRTC VISMOD: UH-72 Lakota American Light Utility Helicopter.

The UH-72A Lakota is the U.S. Army's new light utility helicopter. Based on the commercial EC145, it is designed for homeland security, medical evacuation, passenger/logistics transportation and drug interdiction missions within the U.S.

Many of the helicopters are being assigned to the National Guard, replacing older air-frames and freeing up larger helicopters for other duties, which has included deployment to Iraq and Afghanistan. Modular kits, such as MEDEVAC and external hoists, enable the Lakota helicopter to make a quick transition to different missions.

The UH-72 is easily configurable for a variety of missions. The large main cabin is equipped with a sliding side door and rear clam-shell door to maximize access and space. It can carry up to eight passengers. Two stretchers can be carried for medical evacuation missions.

The Lakota is equipped with twin engines turning a hinge-less rotor system with advanced composite rotor blades, which limit vibration and noise. The main and tail rotors are set high to enable loading through side and rear doors even when the blades are turning. For safety, the hydraulic and electrical systems are redundant.

The helicopter is equipped with night-vision-goggle-compatible cockpit systems, and a vehicle and engine management display (VEMD) helps crew-members integrate and synthesize flight and vehicle information, reducing pilot workload.

The Lakota also has a built-in air-to-ground communications system so pilots may talk directly to first responders, including police, firefighters and ambulance crews during rescue and disaster-relief operations.

The Army also considered an armed version of the helicopter for reconnaissance, although that mission was for a while expected to go to the ARH-70A armed reconnaissance helicopter. However, in October 2008, the U.S. Army terminated the ARH program.

Military Periscope, May 2013

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the JRTC VISMOD: UH-72 Lakota American Light Utility Helicopter:
The Armed Scout 645 is Designed to meet the U.S. Army's armed scout helicopter requirements..
The Armed Aerial Scout 72X/72X+ is Based on the UH-72A and optimized for scout and light attack missions.
The latest version, the AAS-72X+, incorporates more powerful Turbomeca Arriel 2E engines with dual-channel full authority digital engine control (FADEC), a Fenestron tail rotor for improved anti-torque, an upgraded transmission, the Helionix glass cockpit and avionics suite and a four-axis autopilot system. The improvements provide greater power, range, endurance and payload capacity when operating in 6,000 ft (1,800 m) altitude and 95 degrees F (35 degrees C) environments.

The AAS-72X+ could be in service with the U.S. Army by 2016, said an EADS press release dated Oct. 29, 2012..
The Security and Support Mission Package is This U.S. Army variant features an MX-15 turreted electro-optical/infrared sensor and laser pointer; EuroAvionics EuroNav moving map system and two SkyQuest touch-screen displays; a video management system, SkyQuest digital video recorder plus additional avionics; and Sierra Nevada Tactilink Eagle data downlink system. A searchlight, slaved to the MX-15 turret, is mounted on the aft starboard step. It also has the same rescue hoist that equips the UH-72 medical evacuation mission package.
The Army has ordered about 100 Lakotas in this configuration..

Here is System information for the JRTC VISMOD: UH-72 Lakota American Light Utility Helicopter:
The Alternative Designation is UH-145, UH-72A.
The Primary Function is Utility Helicopter.
The Crew is 2.
The Blades, Main Rotor is 4.
The Blades, Tail Rotor is 2.
The Number of Engines is 2.
The Day/Night Capable is Yes.
The All Weather Capable is Yes.
The Takeoff or Landing Limitations is INA.
The Vertical Climb Rate is INA.
The Number of Hard Points is NA.
The Capacity is 8 troops or 2 stretchers and MEDEVAC crew.
The Service Ceiling is 18,000.

Here is Dimensions information for the JRTC VISMOD: UH-72 Lakota American Light Utility Helicopter:
The Length is 13.
The Width is 1.7.
The Height is 3.45.
The Main Rotor Diameter is 11.
The Disc Area is 95.
The Weight, Empty is 1,792.
The Useful Load is 1,793.
The Max Takeoff Weight is 3,585.

Here is Automotive information for the JRTC VISMOD: UH-72 Lakota American Light Utility Helicopter:
The Engine Name is 2 x Turbomeca Arriel IE2.
The Engine Type is Turboshaft.
The Engine Power is 738 shp each.
The Cruising Range is 685.
The Speed, Maximum is 269.
The Speed, Average is .
The Hover Ceiling (In Ground Effect) is 3,400.
The Hover Ceiling (Out of Ground Effect) is 2,700.

