This document describes the HN-5A Chinese Man Portable Surface-to-Air Missile (MANPAD).

The Chinese Hong Nu (Red Cherry) 5 (HN-5) is a man-portable surface-to-air missile (SAM), designed to engage propeller-driven aircraft and helicopters. It began as a copy of the Soviet SA-7 Grail, but has been updated as the HN-5A.

The original HN-5 guidance technology was relatively primitive, using an uncooled lead sulfide (PbS) infrared (IR) seeker and following the target's flight path until intercept. The uncooled IR seeker proved very susceptible to homing on the hottest object in its field of view, which was often some thing other than an aircraft.

The HN-5A has a cooled seeker with a background noise rejection filter, greater detection range and proportional navigation, which steers the missile on an interception course. It also has a heavier warhead.

The HN-5A has replaced the HN-5 in production and has been offered for export.

The launch tube has simple sights. The power supply is under the tube. The missile has a long pipe-like body with very small foreplanes and angled steering vanes extending to the rear.

The launch procedure for the HN-5 was nearly identical to the SA-7.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Afghanistan, Albania, Bangladesh, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, China, North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Pakistan, Thailand.

Here is Variants information for the HN-5A Chinese Man Portable Surface-to-Air Missile (MANPAD):
The LHN-5A is The HN-5A has a greater detection range for the IR seeker and a reduced susceptibility IR background noise..
The HN-5B is The HN-5B has an increased maximum altitude of 8,202 ft (2,500 m)..
The HN-5C is This is a mobile launcher system. There is one four-tube box on either side of unmanned pedestal.
A laser rangefinder, thermal imager and TV camera for fire control are in a mount atop the pedestal. Eight reload missiles are in the vehicle body. Total mounted weight is 4,409 lb. (2,000 kg).

This version has been displayed on a small flat-bed truck and a scale model of 6 x 6 wheeled armored reconnaissance vehicle. Originally, it was shown on the HRB-230 cross-country vehicle. During the 1997 Paris Air Show, a model of the WZ551 APC was on display with the HN-5C system mounted on the ve hicle's roof. The WZ551 version has a turret elevation limitation of -2/+80 degrees.

The HN-5C is operated by a two-man crew and has a maximum effective range of 13,779 ft. (4,200 m) between an altitude limits of 164 ft (50 m) and 7,545 ft (2,300 m). The maximum target speed is 492 ft/s (150 m/s) for head-on intercept and 853 ft/s (260 m/s) for tail-on engagement. It is available f or export; the current production status of this HN-5C is unreported..

Here is System information for the HN-5A Chinese Man Portable Surface-to-Air Missile (MANPAD):
The Alternative Designations is Red Cherry 5, Red Cherry 5A, HN-5A.
The Target is Rotary wing aircraft.
The Crew is Can be fired by one however, a second crew member assists with identification of the target.
The Reaction Time is <5.
The Family is HN-5.

Here is Dimensions information for the HN-5A Chinese Man Portable Surface-to-Air Missile (MANPAD):
The Weight is 16.
The Length is 1.44.
The Diameter is 72.

Here is Armament (Missile) information for the HN-5A Chinese Man Portable Surface-to-Air Missile (MANPAD):
The Engine is 1 x 2-stage solid-propellant rocket.
The Max Speed is Mach 1.5.
The Maximum Slant Range is 4.4.
The Minimum Slant Range is 800.
The Maximum Altitude is 2,300.
The Minimum Altitude is 80.
The Maximum Target Speed (Head On) is 550.
The Maximum Target Speed (Tail Chase) is 950.
The Warhead is HE / Frag.
The Counter-Counter Measures is Missile has a filter to reduce chances of missile being diverted by flares.

