This document describes the HY-1A (CSSC-2 Silkworm) Chinese Short-Range Anti-Ship Cruise Missile.

The HY-1 received two separate NATO reporting name, the CSS-N-2 Safflower for the ship to ship version and the CSSC-2 Silkworm for the land based coastal defense variant.

The HY-1J was intended for use on the Type 051 destroyers. However, the turmoil of the Cultural Revolution prolonged development into the 1980s. As a result, the Type 051s deployed into the Pacific Ocean to support ballistic missile tests without anti-ship missiles.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Bangladesh.

Here is Variants information for the HY-1A (CSSC-2 Silkworm) Chinese Short-Range Anti-Ship Cruise Missile:
The HY-1 is Basic developmental version developed from the SY missiles, used only in very small numbers as land-to-ship missile for evaluation purposes. Did not enter series production and was replaced by HY-1J..
The HY-1J is Ship-to-ship variant for Type 051 DDG.
The HY-1JA is Improved ship-to-ship variant with a new radar seeker for better anti-jamming capability and accuracy.
The HY-1A is Land-to-ship variant based on the HY-1JA.
The HY-1B is Low level target drone for the test of HQ-2A SAM.
The HJ-1YB is Target drone for the test of HQ-61 SAM.

Here is System information for the HY-1A (CSSC-2 Silkworm) Chinese Short-Range Anti-Ship Cruise Missile:
The  is .
The  is .
The  is .

Here is Missile information for the HY-1A (CSSC-2 Silkworm) Chinese Short-Range Anti-Ship Cruise Missile of the HY-1A (CSSC-2 Silkworm) Anti-Ship Cruise Missile:
The Name is HY-1A; NATO: CSSC-2 Silkworm.
The Type is Anti-Ship Cruise Missile.
The Basic Load is INA.
The Manufactuer is Nanchang Aircraft Factory (Chinese).
The Length is 6.60 m.
The Diameter is 0.76 m.
The Wingspan is 2.4 m.
The Weight, Total is 2,300 kg.
The Warhead Type is Shaped charge high explosive.
The Warhead Weight is 513 kg.
The Propulsion is One liquid rocket engine and one solid rocket booster.
The Speed is Mach 0.8.
The Range is 85 km.
The Cruising Altitude is < 20 meters.
The Guidanc System is Inertial + active conical scanning terminal guidance radar (early models); or inertial + monopulse active radar (later models).
The Single-Shot Kill Probability is 70%.

