This document describes the An-24 (Coke) Russian Transport/Passenger Aircraft.

The Antonov An-24 (Russian/Ukrainian: Антонов Ан-24) (NATO reporting name: Coke) is a 44-seat twin-turboprop transport/passenger aircraft designed in 1957 in the Soviet Union by the Antonov Design Bureau and manufactured by Kiev, Irkutsk and Ulan-Ude Aviation Factories.

First flown in 1959, the An-24 was produced in some 1,000 units of various versions; in 2019 there are 109 still in service worldwide, mostly in the CIS and Africa.

It was designed to replace the veteran piston Ilyushin Il-14 transport on short to medium-haul trips, optimized for operating from rough strips and unprepared airports in remote locations. The high-wing layout protects engines and blades from debris, the power-to-weight ratio is higher than that of many comparable aircraft and the machine is rugged, requiring minimal ground support equipment.

Due to its rugged airframe and good performance, the An-24 was adapted to perform many secondary missions such as ice reconnaissance and engine/propeller test-bed, as well as further development to produce the An-26 tactical transport, An-30 photo-mapping/survey aircraft, and An-32 tactical transport with more powerful engines. Various projects were envisaged such as a four jet short/medium-haul airliner and various iterations of the power plant.

The main production line was at the Kiev-Svyatoshino (now "Aviant") aircraft production plant which built in 1985, with 180 built at Ulan Ude and a further 197 An-24T tactical transport/freighters at Irkutsk. Production in the USSR was shut down by 1978.

Production continues at China's Xi'an Aircraft Industrial Corporation which makes licensed, reverse-engineered, and redesigned aircraft as the Xian Y-7, and its derivatives. Manufacture of the Y-7, in civil form, has now been supplanted by the MA60 derivative with western engines and avionics, to improve performance and economy, and widen the export appeal.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Belarus, Cambodia, Congo, Cuba, Mali, Mongolia, North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Russian Federation, Syria, Ukraine, Uzbekistan.

Here is Variants information for the An-24 (Coke) Russian Transport/Passenger Aircraft:
The An-24 is Original design and prototypes. Twin-engine 44-seat transport aircraft..
The An-24A is Airliner project powered by Kuznetsov NK-4 turboprops, discontinued when the NK-4 was canceled (first use). Production 50-seat airliners built at Kiev with the APU exhaust moved to the tip of the starboard nacelle (second use)..
The An-24ALK (Avtomatizeerovannaya [sistema] Lyotnovo Kontrolya – automatic flight check system) is Several An-24s were converted for navigation aides calibration tasks, with one An-24LR 'Toros' re-designated An-24ALK after conversion. This aircraft was fitted with a photo-theodolite and powerful light sources for the optical sensors..
The An-24AT is A 1962 project for a Tactical transport with rear loading ramp and powered by Isotov TV2-117DS coupled turboprops..
The AT-RD and AT-U Variants is The An-24AT-RD (RD – Reaktivnyye Dvigateli – jet engines) was a tactical transport project with two turbojet boosters pod-mounted under the outer wings and a wider loading ramp. The An-24AT-U (Uskoriteli – boosters)project had three or five PRD-63 (Porokhovoy Raketnyy Dvigatel – gunpowder rocket engine) Jet Assisted Take-off (JATO) bottles, wider cargo ramp, and provision for up to three brake parachutes..
The An-24B is The second 50-seat airliner version with one extra window on each side, single-slotted flaps replacing the double-slotted flaps and extended chord of the center-section to compensate for the lower performance flaps. Some aircraft were delivered with four extra fuel bladders in the wing center section..
The An-24D is A projected long-range airliner version of the An-24B with a single RU-19 booster jet engine in the starboard nacelle, stretched fuselage with seating for 60, strengthened structure, and increased fuel capacity..
The An-24LL (Letyushchaya Laboratoriya – flying laboratory) is The generic suffix LL can be applied to any test-bed, but in the An-24 case seems to refer to a single aircraft equipped for metrology (the science of measurement), to be used for checking the airworthiness of production aircraft..
The An-24LP (LesoPozharnyy – forest firefighter) is Three An-24RV aircraft converted into fire bombers/cloud seeders by installing a tank in the cabin, optical smoke and flame detectors, provision for a thermal imager, racks for carrying flare dispensers, and the ability to carry firefighters for para-dropping..
The An-24LR 'Toros' (Ice Hummock) (Ledovyy Razvedchik – ice reconnaissance) is An-24Bs converted to carry the 'Toros' SLAR (sideways looking airborne radar) either side of the lower fuselage, for ice reconnaissance, guiding icebreakers, convoys, and other shipping..
The "Boosted" Jet Variants is An-24RT (Reaktivnyy [Uskoritel'] Transportnyy – boosted transport), which is similar to the AN-24T, fitted with an auxiliary turbojet engine.

The An-24RV (Reaktivnyy [Uskoritel'] V – boosted V) is a turbojet boosted export version, similar to the An-24V but fitted with a 1,985-lb (8830 N) thrust auxiliary turbojet engine in the starboard nacelle..
The An-24RT (Comms Relay) is The An-24RT (Retranslyator – relay installation) project to a few An-24T and An-24RT aircraft converted to communications relay aircraft. Sometimes referred to as An-24Rt to differentiate from the An-24RT..

Here is System information for the An-24 (Coke) Russian Transport/Passenger Aircraft:
The Alternate Designation(s) is AN-24; NATO: Coke.
The Primary Function / Type is Transport/Cargo Aircraft.
The Manufacturer is Antonov.
The Crew is 2 (pilot, co-pilot).
The Passengers is 50 passengers.
The Number of Engines is 2.
The Number of Hard Points is INA.

Here is Dimensions information for the An-24 (Coke) Russian Transport/Passenger Aircraft:
The Length is 23.53 m.
The Height is 8.32 m.
The Wingspan is 29.20 m.
The Cabin Length is 9.69 m.
The Cabin Width is 2.76 m.
The Cabin Height is 1.91 m.
The Wing Area is 74.98 sq m.
The Weight, Empty is 13,300 kg.
The Weight, Maximum Payload is 5,500 kg.
The Weight, Maximum Takeoff is 21,000 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the An-24 (Coke) Russian Transport/Passenger Aircraft:
The Engine Name is 2 x Ivchenko AI-24V.
The Number of Engines is 2.
The Engine Type is Turboprop.
The Engine Power is 2,550 equivalent shp each.
The Internal Fuel Capacity is 5,550 liters.
The Maximum Speed is 500 km/h.
The Cruise Speed is 450 km/h.
The Landing Speed is 165 km/h.
The Climb Rate is 114 m/min.
The Ceiling is 8,400 m.
The Range, Maximum Payload is 550 km.
The Range, Maximum Fuel, with 30 Passengers is 2,400 km.

Here is Fire Control / Avionics information for the An-24 (Coke) Russian Transport/Passenger Aircraft:
The Fire Control System Type is INA.
The Fire Control Radar is INA.
The Laser Desingator is INA.

Here is Protection information for the An-24 (Coke) Russian Transport/Passenger Aircraft:
The Stealth Properties is None.
The Heat Signature Reduction is No.
The Add on Armor is INA.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The EW Counter Measures is INA.
The Chaffs/Flares is Yes.

