This document describes the MP007 American Man-Portable Direction Finding System.

The R&S MP007 direction finding system is based on the R&S DDF007 portable direction finder upgrade kit in combination with the R&S®ADDx07 compact DF antennas. The result is a unique combination of functionality and performance in a system of this size. It can be used as a stationary or mobile DF station or as a portable manual direction finder, and can be reconfigured within minutes to meet the requirements of the current situation. The R&S®MP007 comes with a wide range of powerful software options and add-ons, making it an excellent choice for all applications that call for a compact and flexible yet powerful DF system.

Key Facts

Outstanding DF accuracy in compact design due to use of the correlative interferometer DF method in the range above 173 MHz
Wide frequency range from 20 MHz to 6 GHz (DF mode)
Realtime position fixing for detected transmitters through networking of multiple R&S®MP007 systems
Extended operating time thanks to high-power battery and optional solar module
Integration into existing Rohde & Schwarz DF systems

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: United States of America.

Here is System information for the MP007 American Man-Portable Direction Finding System:
The Alternative Designation is MPOO7.
The Type is Man-Portable Direction Finding System.
The Crew is 1.
The DF Accuracy is Outstanding DF accuracy in compact design due to use of the correlative interferometer DF method in the range above 173 MHz.
The Frequency Range is Wide frequency range from 20 MHz to 6 GHz (DF mode).
The Position Fixing is Realtime position fixing for detected transmitters through networking of multiple R&S®MP007 systems.
The Operation is Extended operating time thanks to high-power battery and optional solar module.
The Intergration is Integration into existing Rohde & Schwarz DF systems.
The Software is Tried and tested R&S®RAMON control software.
The Web-Based Interface is Special web-based user interface for tablets and touchscreen operation.
The Wireless Communications is Networking via wireless communications.
The Transmitters is Master/slave position fixing of fixed-frequency transmitters. Integration of R&S®MP007 into existing Rohde & Schwarz radiolocation systems.

Here is Dimensions information for the MP007 American Man-Portable Direction Finding System:
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Weight, Combat is INA.

