This document describes the RPK-74 Russian 5.45mm Assault Rifle.

The RPK-74 was introduced in 1974 together with the AK-74 assault rifle and chambered for the new 5.45×39mm intermediate cartridge. It was derived from the AK-74 rifle, with modifications that mirror those made to the AKM to create the RPK.

The RPK-74 also uses a longer and heavier chrome-plated barrel, which has a new gas block with a gas channel at a 90° angle to the bore axis, and a ring for the cleaning rod. It is also equipped with a folding bipod and a different front sight tower. The muzzle is threaded for a flash suppressor or blank-firing device.

The rear stock trunnion was strengthened and the magazine well was reinforced with steel inserts.

Additionally, the RPK-74 has a modified return mechanism compared to the AK-74, which uses a new type of metal spring guide rod and recoil spring. The rear sight assembly, forward handguard and receiver dust cover were all retained from the RPK.

The RPK-74 feeds from a 45-round steel or polymer box magazine, interchangeable with magazines from the AK-74, and is designed to be charged from stripper clips. Drum magazines similar to those used on the previous RPK models were tested during its development phase, but were discontinued in favor of the 45-round box magazine. However, recently the production of a 97-round drum has started. This drum was designed to be used with the AK-107 but can also be used in any 5.45×39mm weapon with compatible magazines, such as the RPK-74 and RPK-74M. They were also testing with experimental conventional drums, a prototype 100-round belt fed drum magazine was also created. It attaches into the regular magazine well, but the cartridges are stored on a 100-round belt inside a box. A feed system removes them from the belt and puts them in a position where they can be loaded through the regular magazine well. This system is actuated by a lever from the magazine that clips around the charging handle. It is unknown if this ever went into service.

It has a cyclic rate of fire of 650 rounds per minute (RPM).

Standard equipment includes: eight magazines, six stripper clips (15 rounds per clip), a speed loader guide, cleaning rod, cleaning kit, sling, oil bottle and two magazine pouches. Some variants do not come with the cleaning kit option.

It is in widespread use by member states of the former Soviet Union, as well as Bulgaria.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Afghanistan, Albania, Bulgaria, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, China, Congo, Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Georgia, Ghana, Hungary, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Lesotho, Libya, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nicaragua, North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Poland, Romania, Russian Federation, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Uganda, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zimbabwe.

Here is Variants information for the RPK-74 Russian 5.45mm Assault Rifle:
The RPK is The RPK is the standard light machine gun/squad automatic model and is chambered in 7.62×39mm. It was adopted by the former Soviet Union and was issued mainly to motorized units. It was later adopted by several military agencies around the world..
The RPKS is The RPKS ("S" — Skladnoy (Russian: складной) means "folding" [stock]) is a variant of the RPK with a side-folding wooden stock was intended primarily for the air assault infantry. Changes to the design of the RPKS are limited only to the shoulder stock mounting, at the rear of the receiver. It uses a trunnion riveted to both receiver walls that has a socket and tang, allowing the stock to hinge on a pivot pin. The trunnion has a cut-out on the right side which is designed to engage the stock catch and lock it in place when folded. The wooden stock is mounted in a pivoting hull, which contains a catch that secures the buttstock in the extended position. The rear sling loop was moved from the left side of the stock body to the right side of the stock frame..
The RPKS-74 is The RPK-74M (Modefitsyrovannyj "Modernized") is an updated variant of the RPK-74 developed during the mid-'70s. In line with the AK-74M assault rifle variant, the RPK-74M lower handguard, gas tube cover, pistol grip, and new synthetic stock are made from a black, glass-filled polyamide. The stock is shaped like the RPK-74 fixed stock, but also side-folds like the RPKS-74. Each AK-74M is fitted with a side-rail bracket for mounting optics. Updated magazines were produced by Molot with horizontal ribs going up the sides of the magazines. An export variant chambered in 5.56×45mm NATO was also introduced, designated as the RPK-201. Also for export is the RPKM (A.K.A. RPK-203) chambered in 7.62×39mm; it uses the same polymer furniture as the RPK-74M variant..

Here is RPK-74 (AK-47) 5.45mm Machine Gun information for the RPK-74 Russian 5.45mm Assault Rifle of the System:
The Name is RPK-74 (AK-47) 5.45mm Machine Gun.
The Type is Light Machine Gun.
The Caliber is 5.45.
The Manufacturer is Vyatskiye Polyany Machine-Building Plant.
The In Service is 1974-Present.
The Length is 1,060.
The Barrel Length is 590.
The Weight (RPK) is 4.7.
The Weight (RPKS) is 5.1.
The Max Rate of Fire is 600.
The Action is Gas operated, rotating bolt; closed bolt.
The Effective Firing Range (with sight adjustments) is 100-800 m.
The Maximum Firing Range is 800 m.
The Feed system is 30-45-round box magazine, 100-round plastic drum magazine, belt ammunition (with side mounted belt feed device).
The Sights is Iron sights: semi-shrouded front post and rear sliding tangent with an adjustable notch
Sight radius: 555 mm (21.9 in).

Here is Ammunition information for the RPK-74 Russian 5.45mm Assault Rifle of the System:
The Type is Rifle.
The Caliber is 5.45.
The Cartridge is 5.45×39mm M74.
The Muzzle Velocity is 960.
The Basic Load is 2,000.

