This document describes the MT-T Russian Heavy Tracked Cargo Carrier.

The MT-T is a tracked prime mover of Soviet origin. It was developed in the late 1970s as a follow-up to the AT-T tracked prime mover. Whereas the AT-T was based on the T-55 tank chassis the MT-T is based on the T-64. The MT-T mainly served as a chassis for specialist vehicles. Since many heavy towed guns were replaced by self-propelled guns many AT-T became available for general purpose towing duties.

The MT-T is based on the T-64 running gear and transmission but uses the V-64-4 diesel engine from the T-72. Unlike the T-64 the MT-T has the automotive components and drive sprocket located at the front. A large forward control cab is fitted. A load area with tarpaulin cover makes up the rear of the vehicle.

Here is Variants information for the MT-T Russian Heavy Tracked Cargo Carrier:
The BAT-2 is BAT-2: The BAT-2 is an armored tracklayer designed to supplement the older BAT-M that is based on the AT-T chassis. The role of the BAT-2 is road grading and clearing existing roads of debree. The BAT-2 is fitted with a variable geometry dozer blade, 2 t light crane, 25 t winch and a ripper. Unlike the MT-T and MDK-3 the BAT-2 has the automotive components fitted at the rear. A smaller cab is fitted in order to make room for the hydraulic equipment of the dozer blade..
The MDK-3 is MDK-3: The MDK-3 is a trench digger based on the MT-T chassis. I twas produced from 1976 - 1991. The MDK-3 is fitted with a dozer blade on the front and trench digging system at the rear. When digging trenches the MDK-3 moves in reverse. In a single pass the MDK-3 can dig a trench up to 1.75 m deep. By moving 500 to 600 cubic meters of earth per hour the MDK-3 has roughly twice the performance over the older MDK-2 that is based on the AT-T chassis..

Here is System information for the MT-T Russian Heavy Tracked Cargo Carrier:
The Alternative Designation is MT-T.
The Type is Heavy Tracked Cargo Carrier.
The Family is MT-T.
The Proliferation is INA.
The Crew is 1 + 4 men.
The Troops is It provides seating for up to 18 troops.

Here is Dimensions information for the MT-T Russian Heavy Tracked Cargo Carrier:
The Length is 8.710.
The Width is 3.28.
The Height is 3.0.
The Weight, Empty is 25.
The Ground Pressure is INA.
The Payload Capacity is 12.

Here is Automotive information for the MT-T Russian Heavy Tracked Cargo Carrier:
The Engine Name is V-64-4.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 710.
The Cruising Range is 500.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 65.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.
The Gradient is 60.
The Side Slope is 30.
The Vertical Step is 0.65.
The Trench is 2.5.
The Fording Depth is 1.3.

Here is Main Weapon System information for the MT-T Russian Heavy Tracked Cargo Carrier:
The Note is There are no crew-served weapons mounted on the  MT-T Russian Heavy Tracked Cargo Carrier.

Here is Protection information for the MT-T Russian Heavy Tracked Cargo Carrier:
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is No.
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is No.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is No.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is No.

