This document describes the Type 69 RPG Chinese 85mm Rocket Propelled Grenade (RPG).

Houthi Proliferation. The Type 69 85mm rocket-propelled grenade (RPG), made by Norinco, is a Chinese variant of the Soviet RPG-7. First introduced in 1972, Type 69 is a common individual anti-tank weapon in service with the PLA. More advanced grenade rounds were developed in the 1980s and 1990s to meet the requirements of modern battlefields. Eventually, the aging Type 69 RPG family was replaced by modern anti-tank weapon systems developed by China such as Type 89 and Type 08.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Bangladesh, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Central African Republic, Chile, China, Congo, Egypt, Eritrea, Estonia, Georgia, Ghana, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Laos (People's Democratic Republic), Latvia, Lebanon, Lithuania, Malta, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Niger, Non-State Actors, North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Pakistan, Palestine, Romania, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Thailand, Uganda, Zimbabwe.

Here is System information for the Type 69 RPG Chinese 85mm Rocket Propelled Grenade (RPG):
The Alternate Designation(s) is Type 69 RPG.
The Type is Rocket Propelled Grenade Launcher.
The Caliber is 85.
The Manufacturer is Norinco.
The Crew is 1 or 2, depending on situation.
The Cartridge is 40 mm  barrel
85 mm warhead.
The Maximum Firing Range is 600 m.
The Effective Firing Range is 200 m.
The Feed System is one round per shot.
The Sights is Iron sights. Infrared and night vision sights possible.

Here is Dimensions information for the Type 69 RPG Chinese 85mm Rocket Propelled Grenade (RPG):
The Length is 910 mm.
The Weight is 5.6 kg.

Here is Ammunition information for the Type 69 RPG Chinese 85mm Rocket Propelled Grenade (RPG):
The RPG Rounds is Although the design of the grenade launcher has not changed significantly since it was introduced in the 1970s, many new types of grenade rounds have been developed over the years to provide enhanced capabilities..
The Type 69 high-explosive anti-tank (HEAT) is basic grenade introduced in the PLA during the 1970s with the Type 69. Phased out of PLA service..
The Type 69-I hollow charge high-explosive anti-tank is standard HEAT grenade developed for the PLA in the 1980s. The hollow warhead was created with improved armor-piercing capabilities..
The Type 69-II HEAT is The same as the Type 69-I HEAT grenade, except that it is improved to defeat modern armored vehicles that are equipped with anti-tank missile plating..
The Type 69-III HEAT is The same as the Type 69-II, increased range and further improved armor-piercing abilities..
The Type 84 HEAT is Made in the 1980s as a lighter warhead with the ability to be fired from long range with claims that the rocket is not affected by side winds. Usable with both Type 69 and 69-I rocket launchers..
The Type 69 75mm airburst anti-personnel high-explosive (HE) is Created for anti-personnel purposes. This is mostly meant to combat against entrenched forces since the rocket, after gaining impact on the ground, bounces to a height of around 2m then airbursts over the target area, scattering about 800 anti-personnel steel balls over a lethal radius of 15 m..
The HE/HEAT is Used for anti-armor and anti-personnel combat. Even though it has 1,500 prefabricated fragments which scatter over a 20 m radius on detonation, the rocket retains its anti-tank capabilities..
The Anti-personnel high-explosive incendiary (HEI) is Created for use in certain environments such as jungles and mountains, it has 900 steel balls and 2,000 to 3,000 incendiary pellets that scatter over a 15 m radius on detonation..
The Tandem-warhead anti-tank grenade is Thought to have been used in the 1990s, it is meant to penetrate vehicles with explosive reaction armor or ERA. Even though it can not defeat most modern vehicles, lighter vehicles such as APCs and AFVs can be destroyed with this rocket..
The Illumination grenade is Equipped with a small parachute to suspend it in mid-air while being used, its effective range is 600 m with the braking ring and 1,500 m without it..

