This document describes the Type 920 Class (Daishan Dao Class) Chinese Hospital Ship.

PLA's first new large Hospital Ship was launched in Guangzhou on 29 August 2007. In August 2008 the Type 920 Hospital ship was reported to have successfully conducted a sea trial. The PLA Navy lists this ship as "Type 920" hospital ship. The ship name is “Yushan Island”, and the number is 866. Because of the ship's function, the media reports use the term "Square Boat" and "Peace Ark" - Daishandao.

This vessel was launched in the ship yard of CSIC (Guangzhou Shipyard International Company Limited), which is a subsidiary of CSSC (China State Shipbuilding Corporation). The Type 920 Hospital Ship has a transom stem, a bulbous bow, an extended deckhouse with a forward bridge. A helicopter landing deck is on the stern of the vessel. Six Large Red-crosses have been painted on the ship body. The ship is approximately 170 meters long and 25 meters in beam and about 20,000-23,000 tons displacement [other estimates place the displacement at only 14,000 tons, while Xinhua reports 10,000 tons]. China did not give out any statistics, but based on Western hospital ships, the Type 920 probably has a ship crew of about 200 and a medical crew of about 600.

A hospital ship would not seem necessary equipment in an amphibious invasion to Taiwan, since the island is so close to the mainland. However, for operations in the more distant waters of the South China Sea, it would be essential. The simultaneous appearance of the large Type 920 Hospital Ship and the Type 071 Yuzhao class amphibious transport seem to mark the beginnings of a major buildup in China's ability to project power into the South China Sea.

The primary mission of a U.S. Navy hospital ship is to provide rapid, flexible, and mobile acute medical care to support a Marine air/ground task force (MAGTF) deployed ashore, Army and Air Force units deployed ashore, and naval amphibious task forces and battle forces afloat. The Medical Treatment Facility provides a mobile, flexible and rapidly responsive afloat medical capability for acute medical and surgical care in support of amphibious task forces, Marine Corps, Army and Air Force elements, and forward deployed Navy elements of the fleet and fleet activities located in areas where hostilities may be imminent. As a secondary mission, they are capable of providing full hospital services for use of other government agencies involved in the support of relief and humanitarian operations worldwide. During World War II, in the final phases of the Pacific campaign, tactical doctrine for employment of Navy hospital vessels changed, allowing them to function as mobile, definitive-care combat hospitals in direct support of amphibious operations, rather than as transports only. Specially designed ships of the Haven (AH 12) class were built to support this concept.

Driven by the development of China’s overall economic strength, naval equipment construction, and even the Chinese army, the team's entire equipment construction achieved rapid development. At the same time, the development of the navy also greatly improved its concept. The Central Military Commission made a major decision on the strategic transformation of the navy, that is, the navy's defense from the offshore to the defense of the sea. In the process of such a big strategic change, the naval equipment construction, including the construction of the navy's medical service, has achieved great development. Reflected in this aspect of maritime medical care. In the construction of marine medical equipment, the "one ship, five boats, four machines" marine medical three-dimensional rescue equipment system including the first standard hospital ship in China.

In 2005, the design and launch of the Chinese Navy's 920 large medical vessel was launched. In 2006, the 920 hospital ship was started and was built by Guangzhou Shipyard International. In August 2007, the 920 hospital ship was launched. In October 2008, after a series of hull and shipboard medical equipment acceptance, 866 ships were delivered to the troops.

The hospital ship is a 14,000-ton large-scale professional hospital ship designed and developed by China. The ship has a total length of 178 meters, a maximum width of 24 meters and a full displacement of more than 14,000 tons. The ship has 10 departments and medical information centers such as rescue room, X-ray room, CT room, examination room and blood preparation room. The medical facilities are advanced, the nursing system is complete, and the medical equipment configuration is equivalent to the level of domestic third-class hospitals

The hospital boat is the most advanced type of equipment in the entire medical system architecture. With the hospital ship, the entire chain of the marine three-dimensional rescue is complete, and the capability level is a rapid development, which has reached a considerable level. As of 2013, only a few countries in the world, such as the United States, Japan, and the United Kingdom, have hospital boats with remote medical rescue capabilities, but most of these hospital ships have been converted from civilian ships. The birth of the first domestic 10,000-ton hospital ship marked a major breakthrough in China's maritime medical support capacity building.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is System information for the Type 920 Class (Daishan Dao Class) Chinese Hospital Ship:
The Alternative Designation is Type 920 Class; Daishan Dao Class.
The Total Built is 1 built.
The Type is Hospital Ship.
The Builder is CSIC (Guangzhou Shipyard International Company Limited).
The In Service is 2008-Present.
The Crew is China did not give out any statistics, but based on Western hospital ships, the Type 920 probably has a ship crew of about 200 and a medical crew of about 600..
The Capacity is The vessel has a capacity of 300 beds, 20 ICU beds, 8 operating theatres, and can perform 40 major surgeries a day, in addition to X-ray, ultrasound, CT, hypothermia, hemodialysis, traditional Chinese medicine, and dental facilities..

Here is Dimensions information for the Type 920 Class (Daishan Dao Class) Chinese Hospital Ship:
The Length is 178 m.
The Beam is approximately 25 metres.
The Draft is INA.
The Displacement, Full Load is approximately 14,000 tons.

Here is Propulsion System information for the Type 920 Class (Daishan Dao Class) Chinese Hospital Ship:
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Twin Diesel engines.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Range is INA.
The Maximum Speed is INA.
The Endurance is INA.

Here is Communications information for the Type 920 Class (Daishan Dao Class) Chinese Hospital Ship:
The Note is She is also equipped with a remote networking and communications system to allow teleconferencing with doctors and specialists on land..

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Type 920 Class (Daishan Dao Class) Chinese Hospital Ship:
The Note is In accordance with the Geneva Conventions, Daishan Dao and her crew do not carry any offensive weapons, while the ship is painted white with red crosses to mark her as a hospital ship..

Here is Onboard Aviation Facilities information for the Type 920 Class (Daishan Dao Class) Chinese Hospital Ship:
The Facilities is Helicopter Hanger.
The Helicopter is 1 x Z-8JH (27 passengers or 15 stretchers).

Here is Protection information for the Type 920 Class (Daishan Dao Class) Chinese Hospital Ship:
The Active Protection System is No.
The Electronic Warfare is No.
The Decoys is No.
The NBC Protection is Yes.

