This document describes the P-19 (Flat Face B) Russian Mobile 2D UHF Radar.

This radar was developed from the Flat Face A. It is associated with SA-2 Guideline, SA-3 Goa, SA-6 Gainful, and SA-8 Gecko SAM systems. It is also designated the 1RL134. The P-19 is truck-mounted on a 6 x 6 chassis and employs an antenna array with two elliptical reflectors mounted one above the other. Like the P-15, it uses the 1L22 Parol IFF equipment. Digital plot processing has been fitted.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Algeria, Czech Republic, Russian Federation.

Here is Variants information for the P-19 (Flat Face B) Russian Mobile 2D UHF Radar:
The Flat Face A (Russian P-15) is This variant is associated with SA-2 Guideline and SA-3 Goa (Russian S-125 Neva) SAM systems. Operates in C-band. It is also designated the 1RL13..
The Bharat Electronics P-19 upgrade is This modernization includes a new digital signal processor providing moving target indication with staggered pulse repetition frequency; a new solid-state low-noise amplifier; color raster scan display; IFF provisions; and built-in test equipment..
The ELSYS P-19 upgrade is This version from Ukrainian firm ELSYS includes an MSHB-19 low-noise microwave amplifier, which features a limiter that reportedly has an operating frequency of 700 to 1,000 MHz; a gain of 26 to 32 dB; a 3 dB noise figure; and a maximum allowable input pulsed power value of 3,000 W..
The Retia RLP-19/IFF P-19 upgrade is This modernization includes an AN/TPX-56 IFF interrogator, updated communications, digital processing, new display console, Doppler filtering, planar IFF antenna and built-in test equipment..
The KB Radar P-15R is This is an upgrade to the P-15 radar developed by KB Radar in Belarus. The modernization includes a MAZ truck chassis, or other chassis as requested by the customer; standard shelter; standard top and bottom antennas; upgraded bottom antenna phase switch; standard rotary support mechanism with slip rings; and an upgraded digital azimuth meter..
The Ukroboronservice P-190U is This is a P-19 radar upgrade from Ukroboronservice in Ukraine. It features automated workstations; improved radar performance; wide range of narrow and broadband probing signals enabling the radar to adapt to various combat environments; digital signal processing, including matched filtration; clutter and active jamming suppression; target detection and coordinate measuring; target tracking; and data distribution. New software features a user-friendly interface..
The DefTech P-19 upgrade is This is a modernization offered by DefTech Global in the United Arab Emirates. It features an all solid-state design that enhances all combat capabilities and reduces maintenance. New equipment includes a solid-state transmitter; solid-state receiver; and digital signal processing. Optional gear includes a four-channel dejammer; height-finder control software and equipment; software for guiding fighter jets; software for targeting air defense systems; and equipment for documentation..
The Kasta-2E (39N6E/Casta 2E/Flat Face E) is This is an all solid-state variant of the rugged and effective Flat Face. Digital moving target indication (MTI) improves countermeasure resistance. Wide-band reflections from clouds are screened out by a special filter. To combat jamming, the radar employs automatic or manual selection of any one of 10 carrier frequencies, phase modulation and constant false-alarm rate (CFAR) processing, among other techniques. "Flicker" radiation, where the radar is turned on and off intermittently, reduces its vulnerability to anti-radar missiles. The radar is optimized to detect low-flying targets in heavy surface and weather clutter environments..
The P15M2 (NATO Squat Eye) is This variant operates in the C-band and has a single antenna on a tethered latticework mast. See separate record for more information..

Here is System information for the P-19 (Flat Face B) Russian Mobile 2D UHF Radar:
The Alternative Designation is P-19 (Flat Face B), IRL134.
The Type is 2D UHF Radar.
The Manufacturer is INA.
The Chassis is ZIL-131.
The Crew is 3.

Here is Dimensions (Chassis: ZIL-131) information for the P-19 (Flat Face B) Russian Mobile 2D UHF Radar:
The Length is 6.9 m.
The Width is 2.5 m.
The Height is 2.9 m.
The Weight, Empty is 6,700 kg.
The Antenna Width is 6.00 m.
The Antenna Height is 2.15 m.

Here is Automotive (Chassis: ZIL-131) information for the P-19 (Flat Face B) Russian Mobile 2D UHF Radar:
The Engine Name is ZIL-131.
The Engine Type is V-8, water cooled, 4 stroke, petrol.
The Engine Power is 150 hp at 3,200 rpm.
The Transmission is Manual.
The Cruising Range is 645 km.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 80.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.
The Gradient is 58%.
The Side Slope is INA.
The Vertical Step is INA.
The Trench is INA.
The Fording Depth is 0.850 M.

Here is Radar System information for the P-19 (Flat Face B) Russian Mobile 2D UHF Radar:
The Band is NATO C (810-850 or 880-905 MHz).
The Maximum Range is 360 km.
The Peak Power is 300 kW.
The Beam WIdth Azimuth is 10 deg.
The Beam Width Elevation is 5 deg.
The Accuracy Angular is 5 deg.
The Accuracy Range is 80 m.
The Pulse Width is 2-3 microseconds.
The Pulse Repetition Frequency is 837.5 MHz to 880 GHz.
The Parabolic Reflectors is Two elliptical parabolic reflectors measuring 11x5.5 m. Reflectors arranged one above the other on van roof..
The Associated Missiles and Radars is SA-2 Guideline, SA-3 Goa, SA-6 Gainful and SA-8 Gecko SAM systems.

Here is Protection information for the P-19 (Flat Face B) Russian Mobile 2D UHF Radar:
The Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is No.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is No.

