This document describes the MARS-L New Zealand 5.56mm Assault Rifle.

The MARS-L replaces the Steyr as the individual weapon for New Zealand Defense soldiers, sailors and airmen, and it uses the same 5.56mm caliber NATO ammunition. The MARS-L weighs 3.3kg and includes day and night optical sights, a detachable grenade launcher and other features such as laser sights and sound suppressors.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Estonia, New Zealand.

Here is Variants information for the MARS-L New Zealand 5.56mm Assault Rifle:
The R-20 Rahe (Estonian Defense Forces) is Th designation R-20 Rahe means 'hail' in Estonian. The R-20 is planned to fully replace the Galil and Ak-4 by 2022, and features a monolithic M-LOK upper receiver and LMT's short-stroke gas piston system. The R-20 is being produced in two configurations: a 14.5" (368mm) barreled variant and a 12.5" (318mm) barreled variant..

Here is System information for the MARS-L New Zealand 5.56mm Assault Rifle:
The Alternate Designation(s) is MARS-L (Modular Ambidextrous Rifle System-Light), Assault Rifle.
The Primary Function / Type is Assault Rifle.
The Date of Introduction is 2015.
The Manufacturer is Lewis Machine & Tool.
The Proliferation is Not widely proliferated to state defense forces beyond New Zealand and Estonia; however, the rifle is available for world-wide sale to both private and government/state entities..
The Action is Semi-direct gas impingement operating system over a gas-piston system.
The Rate of Fire is INA.
The Muzzle Velocity is INA.
The Effective Firing Range is ~550 m.
The Feed System is 30-round magazine or other STANAG magazines..
The Sights is Advanced Combat Optical Gunsight (ACOG). In addition, a wide range of alternative optics can be attached to the rail system..
The Tactical Lighting is Combat Torches (tactical flashlights) attachable to rail system.

Here is Dimensions information for the MARS-L New Zealand 5.56mm Assault Rifle:
The Length (Extended Stock) is 914.
The Barrel Length is Two configurations: 368 mm and 318 mm barreled variants.
The Weight, Empty is 3.3.

Here is Ammunition information for the MARS-L New Zealand 5.56mm Assault Rifle:
The Type is Rifle.
The Caliber is 5.56.
The Cartridge is 5.56x45 mm NATO.

Here is Grenade Launcher information for the MARS-L New Zealand 5.56mm Assault Rifle:
The Name is M203PI.
The Diameter is 40 mm.
The Configuration is Detachable, underbarrel.
The Ammunition Type is HE-Frag, Smoke, Illumination, TPT.

