This document describes the Supercam S100 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The Supercam S100 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) has a one-piece body and is designed as a flying wing. These features provide unmanned aircraft with easy transportation and quick launching even under adverse conditions. The UAV allows mounting top-class payloads, while the flight duration is about 80 minutes. The system can be used for high-resolution aerial photography, as well as for online video surveillance at any time of the day and object coordinates determination with a range of up to 25 km.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is System information for the Supercam S100 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is Supercam S100.
The Type is Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is Supercam Unmanned Systems Group.
The Autonomy is Automatic control system (ACS - UAV autopilot) provides the UAV flight at a specified altitude, the specified horizontal and vertical maneuvers performance, as well as the flight mission performance.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Capabilities is GCS voice module (voice announcement of all commands and current changes in flight conditions, wind speed, and the flight mission performance); Possibility of the UAV control transferring from one GCS to another; UAV automatic return to the specified point; GCS operation in motion capability; UAV performs the automatic flight according to the specified course and can hover over the object. The fly-over point can be moved by the operator in real time, taking into account wind corrections or inaccuracies of the electronic map; Connection of GCS to the Internet as a web server with the full-featured remote terminal functions; Semi-automatic control can be performed with the multifunctional gamepad; 4 UAVs simultaneous operation.
The Radio Link Range is 20 km.
The Video Transmission Range is 20 km.
The Payload Options is - 20/24/42 MP photo camera with the ability to be mounted on the azimuth stabilized platform;
- Gyro-stabilized thermal imaging camera and/or video camera with 10x optical zoom, that can be combined together, and optionally enhanced with a laser target marker;
- Multispectral camera.
The Diagnostics is automatic self-diagnostics of the ground and onboard equipment.
The Deployment Time is 15 min.
The Launching System is elastic catapult.
The Recovery System is with a parachute in automatic or semi-automatic mode.
The Operational Temperature is -40°С to +45°С.
The Accessories is - Video link for digital broadband transmission within a range of up to 25 km;
- Radio link of telemetry and control with the ability of FHSS operation.

Here is Dimensions information for the Supercam S100 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is INA.
The Wingspan is 1.0 m.
The Height is INA.
The Maximum Takeoff Weight is 3.5 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Supercam S100 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Battery.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 120 km/h.
The Cruising Speed is 85 km/h.
The Operational Height is 150 - 1000 m.
The Maximum Distance is 50 km.
The Maximum Windspeed is 15 m/s.
The Endurance is 60 min.

