This document describes the Puma 3 AE American Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

AeroVironment’s expertise in UAS technology is epitomized by our third-generation Puma 3 AE (All Environment). We have equipped the Puma 3 AE with the powerful Mantis i45 gimbaled payload for use in day, night, or low-light environments, an array of communication frequencies (M1/M2/M3/M4/M5/M6), all protected with powerful AES-256 bit encryption, and a reinforced airframe with optional under wing transit bay for secondary payloads and third party applications.

With both manual and autonomous navigation capability, Puma 3 AE’s newly enhanced propulsion system makes it significantly more efficient and easier to hand-launch. Deep- stall lading capability makes aircraft recovery simple and precise. All these advanced features can be used in land or maritime operations.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: United States of America.

Here is System information for the Puma 3 AE American Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is Puma 3 AE.
The Type is Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is AeroVironment.
The Endurance is 2.5 hour flight endurance with an LE battery.
The Payloads is Mantis i45 Gimbaled Payload with Dual 15mp EO
cameras, 50x zoom, IR camera and Low Light camera
for night operations, and High Power Illuminator.
The GCS is Common GCS with Raven® and Wasp® AE.
The Launch Method is Hand-launched, rail launch (optional).
The Recovery Method is Autonomous or manual deep-stall landing.

Here is Dimensions information for the Puma 3 AE American Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is 1.4 m.
The Wingspan is 2.8 m.
The Weight is 6.8 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Puma 3 AE American Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is INA.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 47–83 km/h, 25–45 knots.
The Maximum Distance is 20 km standard antenna, 60 km with LRTA.
The Maximum Altitude is 91–152 m AGL.
The Endurance is 2.5 hour flight endurance with an LE battery.

