This document describes the Rooivalk (Ah-2) South African Attack Helicopter.

The Denel Rooivalk (previously designated AH-2 and CSH-2) is an attack helicopter manufactured by Denel Aviation of South Africa. Rooivalk is Afrikaans for "Red Falcon". Development of the type began in 1984 by the Atlas Aircraft Corporation, its development is closely connected to the Atlas Oryx transport helicopter, both aircraft being based on the Aérospatiale SA 330 Puma and having started development at the same time.

Development of the Rooivalk was protracted due to the impact of limited budgets during the 1990s, and a desire to produce a highly advanced attack helicopter. The South African Air Force (SAAF) ordered 12 Rooivalk, designated the Rooivalk Mk 1 in SAAF service, the first of was officially handed over in April 2011. The helicopters are flown by 16 Squadron, based at AFB Bloemspruit near Bloemfontein.

Due to the SAAF's decades of helicopter experience in the harsh African environment, the Rooivalk has been designed to operate for prolonged periods without sophisticated support. All that is needed to keep the Rooivalk flying is a medium transport helicopter equipped with a basic spares supply plus four ground crew.

The Rooivalk carries a range of weapons depending on the mission profile. It is generally fitted with a nose-mounted 20 mm cannon and can also carry air-to-air missiles, anti-armour missiles and unguided rockets. The Rooivalk has a fire control system for target acquisition and tracking as well as an advanced navigation system using Doppler radar and GPS. Also incorporated is an electronic countermeasures suite coupled with chaff and flare dispensers.

Notable features include a tandem cockpit, starboard tail rotor with a port tailplane, a fixed wheeled undercarriage as well as wire cutters above and below the cockpit and on the undercarriage. The Rooivalk is capable of doing a loop and thus momentarily "flying upside down". The first manned helicopter to do a loop was the Sikorsky S-52 flown by Harold E. Thompson on May 9th, 1949.

The following types of missions are foreseen for the Rooivalk: reconnaissance, heliborne escort, close air support, deep penetration, and anti-armour.

In 2016, Denel was reportedly proceeding with a Mk 1.1 upgrade program for the existing Rooivalk fleet; prospective improvements include the addition of a missile approach warning system and enhancements to the rotorcraft avionics. On 15 September 2016, it was announced that Airbus Helicopters and Denel had signed a memorandum of understanding to cooperate on the SAAF modernisation program; further details on the changes included reliability and survivability improvements, an increased payload, and the replacement of obsolete targeting systems and armaments.

In September 2014, Denel Group chief executive Riaz Saloojee stated that the firm were currently studying the feasibility of reopening the Rooivalk production line, which had been mothballed in 2007 after the production of the initial 12 SAAF aircraft. Saloojee stated that talks were under way; it was mooted that new production aircraft conforming to an entirely new platform that used Rooivalk technology could be produced. In September 2016, the South African government authorised government-to-government negotiations on the topic of restarting production of the Rooivalk. According to Victor Xaba, deputy chief executive of Denel Aerostructures, the company would need commitments for at least 70 rotorcraft for the re-establishment of the assembly line to be viable.[8]

The production of a prospective Rooivalk Mk 2 has been periodically mooted.[5] In July 2015, Saloojee spoke on the company's efforts to gain support for a Rooivalk Mk 2 programme which would involve a large proportion of new systems and for which the firm had already produced a roadmap. In late 2016, Denel stated that it was conducting a series of talks with various nations on the Rooivalk Mk 2, including Egypt, Brazil, Nigeria, Poland, and India.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: South Africa.

Here is Variants information for the Rooivalk (Ah-2) South African Attack Helicopter:
The Rooivalk Mk 1 Block 1F is The Mk 1 Block 1F introduced modifications to improve the Rooivalk's safety and reliability and accuracy of weapon systems. The work included a significant remanufacturing of some gearbox mounting components. Old electronics were replaced and reliability issues with the 20-mm F2 cannon were resolved.
The upgraded helicopter also features new Denel Saab Aerostructures external fuel tanks that increase self-deployment range by 50 percent and provides integration with the Denel Mokopa air-to-ground missile..

Here is System information for the Rooivalk (Ah-2) South African Attack Helicopter:
The Alternative Designation is AH-2 Rooivalk Attack Helicopter.
The Primary Function is Anti-Tank Attack Helicopter.
The Type is Attack Helicopter.
The Crew is 2.
The Blades, Main Rotor is 4.
The Blades, Tail Rotor is 1.
The Number of Engines is 2.
The Day/Night Capable is Yes.
The All Weather Capable is INA.
The Takeoff or Landing Limitations is 8,750 kg.
The Vertical Climb Rate Two Engines is 799.
The Vertical Climb Rate One Engine is 390.
The Hover Ceiling IGE is 5,852 m.
The Hover Ceiling OGE is 5,456 m.
The Number of Hard Points is 6.
The Maximum Forward Speed is 278.
The Maximum Sideway Speed is 93.
The Cruise Speed is 150.
The Cruising Range Internal Fuel is 700.
The Cruising Range External  Fuel is 1200.
The Note: is AH-2 Rooivalk Attack Helicopter is 130 deployable.

Here is Dimensions information for the Rooivalk (Ah-2) South African Attack Helicopter:
The Length is 18.73.
The Height is 5.19.
The Main Rotor Diameter is 15.58.
The Empty Weight: is 5,730.
The Combat Weight is 8,750.

Here is Automotive information for the Rooivalk (Ah-2) South African Attack Helicopter:
The Engine Name is Makila.
The Engine Type is 2 x 1K2.
The Engine Power is 3,008 hp (2,243 kW).

Here is Communications information for the Rooivalk (Ah-2) South African Attack Helicopter:
The Radio is 2 x VHF/UHF (AM and FM) transceivers, 1 High Frequency radio and an IFF (Identify Friend or Foe) Transponder.

Here is Ammunition. Chin Mounted Gun information for the Rooivalk (Ah-2) South African Attack Helicopter of the Chin Mounted Gun:
The Name is 20mm F2 cannon, high velocityF2.
The Type Munitions/Muzzle Velocity is HE: 3,440 fps: APDS: 4,100 fps.
The Ammunition Stowage is 300rds/magazine.
The Approximate Barrel Life is 16,000rds.

Here is Rocket System #1 information for the Rooivalk (Ah-2) South African Attack Helicopter of the Wing Mounted Weapons:
The Name is 70-mm (2.75in) Zeebrugge.
The Type is FFAR (Folding Fin Aerial Rocket).
The Basic Load is up to 76 Rockets (19 70mm rockets/pod).

Here is Air-to-Air Missile System information for the Rooivalk (Ah-2) South African Attack Helicopter of the Wing Mounted Weapons:
The Name is Mistral.
The Type is Air-to-air.
The Manufacturer is MBDA France.
The Proliferation is Widely proliferated over 30 countries..
The Basic Load is 4.
The Length is 1.86.
The Diameter is 90.
The Range is 6.
The Guidance is Infrared Homing.
The Warhead is High Explosive with High density tungsten balls.
The Warhead Weight is 2.95kg.
The Detonation Mechanism is Laser proximity or impact trigger.
The Engine is Solid Rocket Motor.
The Speed is 800 m/s, approx. Mach 2.6 (high supersonic).

Here is Anti-Tank Guided Missile System #1 information for the Rooivalk (Ah-2) South African Attack Helicopter of the Wing Mounted Weapons:
The Name is ZT-6 Mokopa.
The Type is Air-to-surface.
The Manufacturer is Denel Dynamics, South Africa.
The Length is 1.995mm.
The Diameter is 178mm.
The Missile Weight is 49.8kg.
The Min Range is INA.
The Maximum Range is 10.
The Missile Velocity is Varies by type of munition.
The Armor Penetration is 1350mm.
The Warhead Type is Tandem High Explosive Anti-Tank (HEAT) and Blast Fragmentation.
The Guidance is Semi-active laser homing millimeter wave radar seeker.

Here is Anti-Tank Guided Missile System #2 information for the Rooivalk (Ah-2) South African Attack Helicopter:
The Name is HOT-3 (French: Haut subsonique Optiquement Téléguidé Tiré d'un Tube).
The Type is Anti-tank.
The Manufacturer is MBDA.
The Length is 1.3m.
The Diameter is .15m.
The Missile Weight is 24.5kg.
The Minimum Range is 75m.
The Maximum Range is 4,300m.
The Missile Velocity is 864 km/h.
The Armor Penetration is 1250mm.
The Warhead Type is Tandem charge HEAT.
The Guidance is Semi-automatic command to line of sight (SACLOS).
The Engine is Two-stage solid fuel rocket.

Here is Anti-Tank Guided Missile System #3 information for the Rooivalk (Ah-2) South African Attack Helicopter:
The Name is AGM-114 Hellfire.
The Type is Air-to-Surface.
The Manufacturer is Northrop Grumman, Lockheed Martin, Boeing, United States of America.
The Length is 1.6m.
The Diameter is 180mm.
The Missile Weight is 45-49kg.
The Minimum Range is 499m.
The Maximum Range is 11,008m.
The Missile Velocity is 1601 km/h.
The Armor Penetration is INA.
The Warhead Type is High-explosive anti-tank (HEAT); 9.1 kg tandem anti-armor. Metal augmented charge (MAC); 8.2 kg shaped charge Blast fragmentation.
The Guidance is Semi-active laser homing millimeter wave radar seeker.
The Enginie is Solid-fuel rocket.

Here is Fire Control information for the Rooivalk (Ah-2) South African Attack Helicopter:
The Fire Control Target Detection System is Auto-tracking  FLIR (Forward Looking Infrared Radar).
The Direct Fire Control is Target detection, acquisition and tracking system (TDATS). TDATS has an auto-tracker, forward-looking infrared (FLIR) sensor with three fields of view, laser designator, laser rangefinder and low-level television sensor..
The Laser Designator is Yes.
The Automated Helmet is Top Owl helmet mounted sight.
The Position Location System is GPS.
The Note: is The pilot flies the Rooivalk with hands-on-collective-and-stick (HOCAS) controls, assisted by a Thales Avionics Top Owl helmet-mounted sight display (HMSD). The HMSD gives both crewmembers a head-up display (HUD) for nap-of-the-earth (NOE) flight and low-level target engagement..

Here is Protection information for the Rooivalk (Ah-2) South African Attack Helicopter:
The Cockpit Protection is Protected cockpit.
The Heat Signature Reduction is INA.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The EW Protection is Rooivalk also carries a full electronic warfare suite to increase survivability on the battlefield. The fully integrated helicopter electronic warfare self-protection suite (HEWSPS) can be reprogrammed using threat libraries matching the potential hazards of the area of operations..
The EW Counter Measures/CCM is INA.
The Counter Measures (Chaff/Flares) is Manual, semi-automatic or automatic chaff and flares.
The Waring Systems is Laser and radar warning systems.

