This document describes the RG-31 Nyala South African 4x4 Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP).

The RG-31 Nyala South African 4x4 Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) ambush-protected infantry mobility vehicle manufactured in South Africa by Land Systems OMC (the division of Denel SOC LTD, located in Benoni, South Africa) and in Turkey by FNSS Defence Systems. It is based on the Mamba APC of TFM Industries.

The RG-31 is built from a V-shaped all-steel welded armor monocoque hull and high suspension, typical of South African mine-protected vehicles, providing excellent small-arms and mine blast protection. The vehicle is designed to resist a blast equivalent to two TM-57 anti-tank mines detonating simultaneously. The RG-31 is classified by the United States Department of Defense as a category 1 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicle.

The vehicle accommodates a crew of 8 or 10, including the driver, depending on the model. Dismounting is provided via a large rear door and two front doors.

The RG-31 has become the multi-purpose vehicle of choice of the UN and other peacekeeping and security forces. It is finding favor with non-governmental organizations requiring a vehicle with a non-aggressive appearance to protect their personnel against land mines.

In July 2016, the Letterkenny Army Depot in Pennsylvania rolled out the latest variant of the RG31, with improvements including an engine upgrade from 275 to 300 hp, a transmission upgrade from 2,500 to a 3,000 series, independent suspension, 360-degree spotlights for night visibility, and an armored gunner's hatch. The depot is scheduled to produce 929 these RG31s through 2020.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Burundi, Canada, Colombia, Rwanda, Somalia, Spain, United Arab Emirates, United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the RG-31 Nyala South African 4x4 Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The RG-31 Mk.3 is Widespread model..
The RG-31 Mk.5 is Improved model with superior ballistic and mine protection..
The RG-31 Mk.5E is Extended model with larger interior volume and passenger capacity..
The RG-31 Mk.6 is Model with enhanced crew protection..
The RG-31 Mk.3 Charger is version of the US Army, powered by Detroit Diesel engine. In USA the RG-31 is classified as Category 1 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected Vehicle..
The RG-31 Mk.5 Charger is Version of the US Army, powered by Cummins QSB engine..
The RG-31 Sabre is Utility version with a cargo area at the rear. It seems that this vehicle was never produced in quantity..
The RG-31 Agrab (Scorpion) is Mortar carrier with 120 mm mortar. It is based on RG-31 Mk.5. It was jointly developed with International Golden Group of UAE..

Here is System information for the RG-31 Nyala South African 4x4 Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Alternative Designation is RG-31 Nyala.
The Type is Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP).
The Configuration is 4x4.
The Manufacturer is BAe Systems Land Systems OMC - South Africa.
The Crew  is 2.
The Passengers is 6.

Here is Dimensions information for the RG-31 Nyala South African 4x4 Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Length is 6.4 m.
The Width is 2.5 m.
The Height is 2.47 m.
The Weight is 7.28 tons.

Here is Automotive information for the RG-31 Nyala South African 4x4 Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Engine Name is Daimler-Benz OM 352A.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 123 hp.
The Range is 900 km.
The Maximum Road Speed is 100 km/h.
The Gradient is 50%.
The Side Slope is 30%.
The Trench is 0.5 m.
The Vertical Step is 0.5 m.
The Fording is 1.5 m.

Here is Main Weapon System information for the RG-31 Nyala South African 4x4 Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Note is RG-31 Nyala South African 4x4 Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) can be armed with a roof-mounted 7.62 mm or 12.7 mm machine gun or 40 mm automatic grenade launcher. Some vehicles are fitted with remotely controlled weapon stations. Also there are some firing ports provided for the troops to fire their individual weapons..

Here is Protection information for the RG-31 Nyala South African 4x4 Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP):
The Hull Armor is South Africa pioneered and perfected design of mine protected vehicles. Armored vehicles from this country provide excellent small-arms and mine blast protection. The Nyala has a V-shaped floor which deflects mine blasts away from the vehicle. It withstands blast equivalent to 14 kg of TNT under any wheel or equivalent of 7 kg or TNT anywhere under the hull. Crew and passengers are also protected from small arms fire and artillery shell splinters..
The Applique Armor is Available.
The NBC Protection is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is No.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

