This document describes the RPG-29 Vampir Russian Anti-Tank Rocket Launcher.

Hezbollah and Houthi Proliferation. The RPG-29 is one of the deadliest rocket launchers in use today. The RPG-29 "Vampir" is a Soviet reusable rocket-propelled grenade (RPG) launcher. Adopted by the Soviet Army in 1989, it was the last RPG to be adopted by the Soviet military before the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991. The RPG-29 has since been supplemented by other rocket-propelled systems, such as the RPG-30 and RPG-32. The RPG-29 has been implicated in an attack on the British Challenger 2, as well as in attacks on invading Israeli Merkava tanks in Lebanon, which breached the tanks' armor and in some cases injured or killed members of the crew.


The RPG-29 is a shoulder-launched, unguided, tube-style, breech-loading anti-tank rocket system with a range of 500 meters. The light weapon is designed to be carried and used by a single soldier. On the top of the launch tube is a 2.7×1P38 optical sight.

When launched, the missile deploys eight fins as the rocket leaves the launcher, stabilizing the rocket during flight, up to a range of 500 meters.

Two warheads are available for the weapon:

*  The TBG-29V thermobaric anti-personnel round.
*  The PG-29V anti-tank/anti-bunker round has a tandem-charge HEAT warhead for defeating explosive reactive armor (ERA). This warhead is standardized with that of the PG-7VR round fired by the RPG-7V rocket launcher. The comprises two charges—an initial small charge triggers any reactive armor. If ERA or cage armor is absent, this charge strikes the main armor. Behind the primary charge, a much larger secondary-shaped charge bursts at the rear of the initial warhead and projects a thin, high-speed jet of metal into the armor compromised by the first charge. PG-29V is capable of killing hard targets, including tanks with ERA.

The RPG-29 is unusual among Russian anti-tank rocket launchers in that it lacks an initial propellant charge to place the projectile at a safe distance from the operator before the rocket ignites. Instead, the rocket engine starts as soon as the trigger is pulled, and burns out before the projectile leaves the barrel.

On the bottom of the tube is a shoulder brace for proper positioning along with a pistol grip trigger mechanism. A 1PN51-2 night sight can be fitted.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Algeria, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Mexico, Non-State Actors, North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Pakistan, Russian Federation, Syria, Ukraine, Viet Nam.

Here is Variants information for the RPG-29 Vampir Russian Anti-Tank Rocket Launcher:
The RPG-29  is Night sight only shoulder-launch variant..
The RPG-29N is Night sight only shoulder-launch variant..
The RPG-29-2003 is An RPG-29 with newer electro-optical sights, i.e. KPUO and VWO 2TS35, that have an integrated laser rangefinder and day/night compatibility. This variant operates like a recoilless rifle on a collapsible tripod mount..
The Ghadir is it is reportedly an Iranian version of the RPG-29..

Here is Dimensions information for the RPG-29 Vampir Russian Anti-Tank Rocket Launcher:
The Length, Launcher in Carrying Position is 1,000 mm.
The Length, Launcher in Firing Position is 1,850 mm.
The Caliber is 105 mm.
The Weight, Launcher is 11.5 kg.
The Weight, Round PG-29V is 6.1 kg.
The Weight, Round TBG-29V is 6.7 kg.
The Weight, Warhead is 4.5 kg.
The Weight, Explosive (Main Warhead) is 1.4 kg.

