This document describes the Kalmar RT240 Finnish Rough Terrain Container Handler.

The Kalmar RT240 Rough Terrain Container Handler (RTCH) is a militarized model of commercial design. It was adopted by the US military. It is a successor to the Caterpillar RTCH, which entered service with the US military back in 1981. This machine operates on rough terrain, beaches and other unimproved surfaces. The US Army awarded production contract for new rough terrain container handler in 2000. This machine was first fielded in 2001. By 2004 the US Army operated 346 Kalmar RT240 container handlers. At that time the US Marine Corps ordered 25 RTCH systems with a possible order for another 80 systems. It is also in service with Australia and United Kingdom.

   The container handlers are used to handle standard shipping containers, that are the backbone of military logistics. The Kalmar RTCH lifts, moves, stacks and unstacks standard 20 ft and 40 ft ISO containers. This machine can move containers with a maximum weight of 24 t. It can stack containers three high and is capable of picking up a container in the second row. Container handler of the RT240 is capable of side shifting, rotation, tilting forward/rear or left/right.

   This machine can move containers on sites where there is minimal or often destroyed infrastructure. It can operate on various terrain, including sand, mud and even water.

   This military machine is powered by Cummins QSM 11 turbocharged multi-fuel diesel engine, developing 400 hp. Vehicle has all-wheel drive. This machine uses two wheel steering for traveling on highway and four wheel steering for loading duties and operation in confined sites. Also it has a crab steer for parallel drive when operating close to walls or other obstacles. The RT240 is capable of operating in up to 1.5 m of sea water.

   This container handler can be airlifted after short preparation by the C-17 or C-5 military cargo aircraft. During preparation transport height of this machine is reduced. However no disassembly is required. The Kalmar RTCH can operate in temperatures from -40°C to +50°C.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Finland, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Here is System information for the Kalmar RT240 Finnish Rough Terrain Container Handler:
The Alternative Designation is Kalmar RT240.
The Type is Rough Terrain Container Handler.
The Mission is The container handlers are used to handle standard shipping containers, that are the backbone of military logistics. The Kalmar RTCH lifts, moves, stacks and unstacks standard 20 ft and 40 ft ISO containers..
The Crew is 1.
The Maximum Lift Capability is This machine can move containers with a maximum weight of 24 t. It can stack containers three high and is capable of picking up a container in the second row. Container handler of the RT240 is capable of side shifting, rotation, tilting forward/rear or left/right.
The Note is The RT240 is capable of operating in up to 1.5 m of sea water..

Here is Dimensions information for the Kalmar RT240 Finnish Rough Terrain Container Handler:
The Length is 14.55 m.
The Width is 3.66 m.
The Height is 3 m.
The Weight, Combat is 53.75 t.

Here is Automotive information for the Kalmar RT240 Finnish Rough Terrain Container Handler:
The Engine Name is Cummins QSM 11.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 400.
The Maximum Speed is 37 km/h.
The Range is INA.
The Gradient is 27.
The Side Slope is INA.
The Vertical Step is INA.
The Trench is INA.
The Fording is 1.5 m.
The Note is This machine uses two wheel steering for traveling on highway and four wheel steering for loading duties and operation in confined sites..

Here is Protection information for the Kalmar RT240 Finnish Rough Terrain Container Handler:
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is No.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is No.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is No.

