This document describes the Giraffe 1X Swedish Lightweight Multi-Mission Surveillance Radar.

The Saab (formerly Ericsson Microwave Systems AB) Giraffe Radar is a family of land and naval two- or three-dimensional G/H-band (4 to 8 GHz) passive electronically scanned array radar-based surveillance and air defense command and control systems tailored for operations with medium- and Short Range Air Defense (SHORAD) missile or gun systems or for use as gap-fillers in a larger air defense system. The radar gets its name from the distinctive folding mast which when deployed allows the radar to see over nearby terrain features such as trees, extending its effective range against low-level air targets. The first systems were produced in 1977. By 2007, some 450 units of all types are reported as having been delivered.

When agility and presence close to the combat area are essential, the Giraffe 1X short-range 3D radar surveillance system is there to protect mobile forces and assets against airborne threats. The Giraffe 1X is an ideal air surveillance component in the VSHORAD domain and can be used as a gap-filler that provides airspace commanders with the capabilities needed for maintaining continuous and accurate air situational awareness.

Highly capable with small footprint
Giraffe 1X is a small and lightweight yet high performing 3D radar that is easily integrated in almost any type of mobile platform, fixed structure or C2 system. The system is designed to deliver key capabilities as part of short-range surveillance and Ground Based Air Defence (GBAD).

Accessing the bigger picture
The compact concept makes Giraffe 1X the perfect choice when continuous air surveillance is desired. It provides swift understanding of the air situation, enabling immediate and effective response to changing threats, new tactics and shifting operational conditions. The system monitors the air volume 360 degrees for air targets and simultaneously locates and warns against incoming rocket, artillery and mortar rounds.

Counter-UAV function
Features include Saab’s unique function for enhanced low, slow and small (ELSS) target detection, which provides a dedicated counter-unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) capability.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

Here is System information for the Giraffe 1X Swedish Lightweight Multi-Mission Surveillance Radar:
The Alternative Designation is Giraffe 1X.
The Type is Lightweight Multi-Mission Surveillance Radar.
The Manufacturer is SAAB.
The Family is Giraffe Radar.
The In Service is INA.
The Crew is 1.
The Fixed, Mobile or Deployable is Giraffe 1X is a mobile, deployable or fixed asset for short-range surveillance and Ground Based Air Defence (GBAD) that provides forces with early warning and the ability to detect and classify more than 100 different targets – simultaneously. Even in high-clutter environments. The system can be delivered with surface surveillance as well as sense & warn add-ons and can be operated remotely or locally.

 

Giraffe 1X is very lightweight with an exceptional small integration footprint. In fact, the complete radar can be transported on a pickup truck-sized vehicle, by helicopter or towed on a trailer. It can be permanently installed on a building or a mast, or integrated into a suitable vehicle. The system can be operated remotely or locally..
The Multi-Role for Multipurpose is Giraffe 1X provides simultaneous air surveillance, GBAD target acquisition and RAM sense and warn capabilities without performance degradation. It can detect fixed and rotary wing targets, fast missiles and RAM targets as well as small UAVs in high-clutter environments. It also offers ﬂexible integration of weapon systems and tactical data links, and can be configured fully self-contained with C3 capabilities..
The Superior Detection is Giraffe 1X covers the entire search volume every second and will detect any air threat, including small, slow, high and low targets. The system provides exceptional air picture awareness with all-weather performance and accurate 3D data for all targets in the search volume.

 

Automatic weapon location and impact location can be provided as an option. The system offers 360˚ detection and tracking of RAM threats even in severe clutter. This means it can provide your forces with automatic warning of incoming threats, giving them the time needed to prepare and respond..
The Networking Possibilities is In the design of Giraffe 1X much emphasis has been put on networking performance. Giraffe 1X allows for standard or Customised data link integration..
The Gifraffe 1X Key Advantages is *Highly capable radar with a small footprint
*Covers the entire search volume every second
*Full mission ﬂexibility through unparalleled support services
*Full interoperability.
The Integrated Logistics Support (ILS) is ILS is an important part of the system delivery and will form the basis for future maintenance. Saab ILS experts have solid experience in tailoring ILS deliveries together with customers worldwide.

Here is Dimensions information for the Giraffe 1X Swedish Lightweight Multi-Mission Surveillance Radar:
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Weight, Combat is INA.

Here is Automotive information for the Giraffe 1X Swedish Lightweight Multi-Mission Surveillance Radar:
The Note is Giraffe 1X is a small and lightweight yet highperforming 3D radar that is easily integrated in almost any type of mobile platform, fixed structure or C2 system..

Here is Radar System information for the Giraffe 1X Swedish Lightweight Multi-Mission Surveillance Radar:
The Name is Giraffe 1X.
The Type is Stacked beam 3D radar.
The Antenna Type is AESA, digital beam forming.
The Frequency is X (I) band.
The Elevation Coverage is > 70 degrees.
The Rotation Rate is 60 RPM.
The Search Volume is 360° or in a sector.
The Instrumented Range is 75 km.

