This document describes the 85V6-V (Orion) Russian Electronic Intelligence System.

Mission: 
The 85V6-V ELINT system is designed to perform radio reconnaissance and location of ground, surface and airborne radio-emitting sources, disclosure of command, control and communications systems, radio control and detection of radio-emitting sources.

Composition
• three detection and direction-finding stations providing radio-emitting sources detection, direction finding, classification, analysis and registering
• central classification and control station 

Each station has autonomous power supply and is accommodated in two air-conditioned box-bodies mounted on KamAZ trucks. The detection and direction-finding station is designed for all-round detection and direction finding
of radio-emitting sources, radio transmission classification, signal analysis and intercept. Stations can be used both autonomously and make part of the 85V6-V ELINT system. The central automated classification and
control station is designed to control operation of detection and direction-finding stations, to locate radio-emitting sources, to collect, process and display electronic situation data within coverage of the 85V6-V system. It ensures the system's autonomous operation and integration into other automated SIGINT/EW systems.

The central control station executes the following operations: digital processing of bearings data, determination of radio-emitting sources coordinates, and their mapping on cartographic background; two-way coded voice/data communications between detection/direction-finding stations and SIGINT/EW system control post stationed at the
range of up to 15 km; mission planning and control for up to three detection/direction finding
stations; automated ELINT data collecting, processing, classification and database management; comparative electronic situation analysis for different data combinations and change dynamics; recording of operation
results.

In general, the 85V6-V system provides:
• automatic panoramic search, detection, measurement of signal parameters and classification of types of radio transmissions;
• radio-emitting source detection, direction finding and location, and position display against map background;
• collection, accumulation and comparative analysis of electronic situation data for different combinations and change dynamics;
• radio intercept with data recording;
• technical analysis of radio-emitting source signals;
• automated preparation of standardized messages.
The 85V6-V system can be used both autonomously and within automated SIGINT/EW systems.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is System information for the 85V6-V (Orion) Russian Electronic Intelligence System:
The Alternative Designation is 85V6-V.
The Type is Electronic Intelligence System.
The Crew is INA.

Here is Dimensions (Ural 375) information for the 85V6-V (Orion) Russian Electronic Intelligence System:
The Length is 7,350 mm.
The Width is 2,960 mm.
The Height is 2,980 mm.
The Curb Weight is 8,400 kg.

Here is Automotive (Ural 375) information for the 85V6-V (Orion) Russian Electronic Intelligence System:
The Engine Name is 7.0L ZIL-375YA.
The Engine Type is V-8 Diesel.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Transmission is 5-speed manual + 2-speed transfer case.
The Cruising Range is INA.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 76 km/h.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.
The Fuel Capacity is 79+16 gal. Fuel economy: 4.9 mpg (at 19-25 mph), 2.94 mpg (city cycle)..

Here is System information for the 85V6-V (Orion) Russian Electronic Intelligence System of the Electronic Warfare System:
The Name is 85V6-A Vega.
The Type is Electronic Intelligence System.
The Operating frequency band, is 30 - 1,700.
The RMS direction-finding instrument error, deg, not more than: in 30-150 MHz range is 3.
The RMS direction-finding instrument error, deg, not more than: in 150-1,700 MHz range is 2.
The Operating frequency band scanning period, is not more than 10.
The Instant scan swathe is 6,0.
The Number of channels recording LF receiver output signals is 3.
The Number of listening channels is 1.
The Power consumption is not more than 5.
The Continuous operation time, is 24.
The Station deployment time is 40.

Here is Protection information for the 85V6-V (Orion) Russian Electronic Intelligence System:
The Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is INA.
The Active Protection System is No.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

