This document describes the Mohajer-1 Iranian Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The Mohajer was Iran's first drone to enter series production and was used during the Iran–Iraq War. The Mohajer-1 was known simply as "Mohajer" through the 80s and 90s, when it was re-designated "Mohajer-1" as other Mohajer variants had been developed.

The Mohajer-1 had a narrow cylindrical fuselage, twin tailbooms, and straight wings mounted high and to the rear of the body. It had a single engine (unknown model) in a pusher configuration, and was guided by ailerons on the wings, an elevator on the horizontal stabilizer, and rudders on the tailbooms. The Mohajer-1 had three fixed landing gear for launch and recovery. It could also be recovered by parachute.The Mohajer-1 was about 8 feet long and had a wingspan of about 10 feet.

The Mohajer-1 carried a single still camera, probably carrying photographic film developed after the drone landed. It was controlled by hobby-class radio, which was easily jammed. In addition, Iran attempted to arm it with six RPG-7 rockets, three under each wing, though this was not very successful.

This initial variant was used during the later stages of the Iran-Iraq war. It was typically launched from speedboats to provide battlefield surveillance.
Unlike later models, the Mohajer-1 featured tricycle landing gear. It had a range of up to 19 mi (30 km) and carried a static nose-mounted camera.

The air vehicle could be armed with up to six PG-7 rockets, with three under each wing.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Iran (Islamic Republic of), Syria, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of).

Here is Variants information for the Mohajer-1 Iranian Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Mohajer-2 is Following the successful use of the Mohajer-1, Iran wanted a version with more range and endurance. This version, which would later be named the Mohajer-2, also had an auto pilot system to fly beyond the line-of-control of its command center..
The Mohajer-2N is In 2014, Iran introduced the Mohajer-2N, which shares the same design as the Mohajer-2 but has far improved performance.[13] The Mohajer-2N replaces the electronics of the Mohajer-2 with more modern versions and has also has improved flight characteristics. T.
The Mohajer-3 is The Mohajer-3, also known as the Dorna, was designed with a new airframe for better performance. It had a square body and featured a low-mounted horizontal stabilizer flush with the main wing, the only member of the Mohajer family configured this way..
The Mohajer-4 is The Mohajer-4 was designed for both the Iranian Army and the IRGC and entered service in late 1997..
The Mohajer-4B is Also known as the Sadiq, the Mohajer-4B is a significant evolution of the Mohajer-4 platform with a square fuselage, twin tail booms, a top-mounted horizontal stabilizer, uncanted wingtips, new landing skids, and straight wings mounted high and to the mid of the body.
The Sadegh-1 is The Sadegh-1 ("Honest-1"), also known as the QOM-1, is simply a Mohajer-4B with two MANPADS mounted on pylons.It was tested in late 2014.
The Mohajer-6 is The Qods Mohajer-6 is a persistent ISTAR UAV capable of carrying a multispectral surveillance payload and/or up to two precision-guided munitions. Ten have been manufactured as of February 2018 for the IRGC Ground Forces, and 40 are planned for the IRGC Navy.The Mohajer-6 complements the larger Shahed 129 operated by the third IRGC branch, the IRGC-ASF. Three have also been delivered to the Iranian Army..

Here is System information for the Mohajer-1 Iranian Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternative Designation is Qods Mohajer; Mohajer-1.
The Type of UAV is Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is Qods Aviation, Tehran.
The Family is Mohajer family.
The In Service is 1986-no longer in service.
The Flight Control Method is controlled by hobby-class radio, which was easily jammed.
The Day/Night Capable is INA.
The All Weather Capable is INA.
The Takeoff or Landing Limitations is INA.
The Ground Crew is INA.
The Autopilot is No.
The Ceiling, Normal Operations is INA.
The Endurance is 1.5.
The Range is 30.
The Date Transmit Distance is INA.
The Location Positioning System is INA.
The Launch System is Runway.
The Recovery System is Parachute.
The Number of Hard Points is 6.
The Manned-Unmanned Teaming (MUM-T) Capable is No.
The Automatic Landing and Takeoff Capability is No.
The Landing Gear is three fixed landing gear for launch and recovery.
The Stabilizer is Horizontal stabilizer.
The Note is Used during the Iran–Iraq War..
The Proliferation is Iran, Syria, Venezuela, Hezbollah.

Here is Dimensions information for the Mohajer-1 Iranian Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is 2.43.
The Width (Wing Span) is 3.04.
The Height is INA.
The Weight, Maximum Takeoff is 83.
The Weight, Payload is INA.
The Tailbooms is Twin.
The Wing Type is straight wings mounted high and to the rear of the body.

Here is Automotive information for the Mohajer-1 Iranian Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Single Engine.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Cruising Range is 30.
The Speed, Maximum is 180.
The Speed, Average is INA.
The Endurance is 1.5.

Here is Communications information for the Mohajer-1 Iranian Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Radio is INA.
The Retrans Radio is INA.

Here is Main Weapons System information for the Mohajer-1 Iranian Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Name is RPG-7.
The Type is Rocket-propelled grenade launcher[.
The In Service is 1961-Present.
The Manufacturer is Bazalt and Degtyarev plant (Russian Federation).
The Proliferation is + 9 Million.
The Length is 950.
The Cartridge is 85.
The Caliber is 40.
The Weight is 6.3.
The Muzzle Velocity, Boost is 115.
The Muzzle Velocity, Flight is 300.
The Effective Firing Range is 300.
The Maximum Firing Range is 700 m (OG-7V)
(self detonates at ≈920 m (1,000 yd)).
The Sights is PGO-7 (2.7×), UP-7V Telescopic sight and 1PN51/1PN58 night vision sights
Red dot reflex sight.

Here is Fire Control information for the Mohajer-1 Iranian Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Fire Control System Type is INA.
The Fire Control Radar is No.
The Radar Type is INA.
The Radar Designator is INA.
The Laser Rangefinder is INA.
The Laser Designator is INA.
The Full-Motion Video is No.
The Still Camera is static nose-mounted camera.
The Thermal Imaging Sensors is INA.
The Electro Optical Pod is INA.
The SAR/GMTI is No.
The SIGINT is No.
The ELINT is No.

Here is Protection information for the Mohajer-1 Iranian Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Fuselage is Narrow cylindrical fuselage.
The Stealth Properties is No.
The Heat Signature Reduction is No.
The Add on Armor is No.
The EW is No.
The EW Counter Measures / CCM is No.
The Counter Measures (Chaffs/Flares) is No.

