This document describes the Supercam S250 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The Supercam S250 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) is one of the best UAVs in the class in terms of tactical and technical characteristics. The aircraft can fly up to 3 hours in adverse weather conditions and perform high-quality video monitoring, which significantly improves the operation quality, whether it is monitoring, mapping, or security of facilities and detection of unauthorized activity.

A distinctive feature of Supercam S250 is its wide range of payloads with various combination capabilities. The payload is mounted in the lower part of the UAV center body and has a 360° rotation, thus providing maximum visibility, and forming high-precision control over the objects along with a high level of stabilization and an automatic target tracking module.

Also, the UAV is characterized by its quick assembly and compactness. The patented system of automatic wing panel detachment not only prevents possible damage during landing but also facilitates transportation downsizing the UAV case. The modular design allows quickly and efficiently changing the UAV payloads and the aircraft equipment.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is System information for the Supercam S250 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is Supercam S250.
The Type is Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is Supercam Unmanned Systems Group.
The Autonomy is automatic or semi-automatic.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Radio Link Range is up to 50 km.
The Video Transmission Range is up to 25 km.
The Payload Options is - 20/24/42/60 MP photo camera with the ability to be mounted on the azimuth stabilized platform
- Gyro-stabilized thermal imaging camera and/or PAL or HD video camera with 10/30х optical zoom, that can be combined together, and optionally enhanced with a laser target marker
- Multispectral camera
- Airborne radiation sensor.
The Deployment Time is 15 min.
The Launching System is elastic catapult.
The Recovery System is parachute with cords release system.
The Operational Temperature is -40°С to +45°С.
The Accessories is - Automatic target tracking module
- Dual (triple) system, dual-frequency geodetic receiver
- Video link for digital broadband transmission within a range of up to 25 km
- Radio link of telemetry and control with the ability of FHSS operation.

Here is Dimensions information for the Supercam S250 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is INA.
The Wingspan is 2.55 m.
The Height is INA.
The Maximum Takeoff Weight is 9.5 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Supercam S250 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Battery.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 120 km/h.
The Cruising Speed is INA.
The Operational Height is 50 - 5000 m.
The Maximum Distance is 180 km.
The Maximum Windspeed is 15 m/s.
The Endurance is 3 hours.

