This document describes the Shahed-136 Iranian Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The Shahed-136 Iranian Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) is a modern swarming drone developed by Iran Aircraft Manufacturing Company (HESA).

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Iran (Islamic Republic of), Russian Federation.

Here is Variants information for the Shahed-136 Iranian Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Geran-2 (Geranium-2) is Geran-2 (Geranium-2) is the Russian version of the Iranian Shahed 136 that has been used during Russia's war in Ukraine. Reports claim that the Iranian navigation system made from civilian components has been replaced with a Russian manufactured flight control unit and microprocessors, using the Russian GLONASS GNSS system rather than U.S. civilian grade GPS, seemingly improving its loitering munition capability..

Here is System information for the Shahed-136 Iranian Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is Shahed-136.
The Type is Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is Iran Aircraft Manufacturing Company (HESA).
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Autonomous Operation is Design features autonomous flight operations made possible through onboard artificial intelligence or pre-programming..
The Camera Equipment is Design supports photographic equipment providing still and / or real-time image / video results..
The Launching System is RATO-assisted take-off.
The Recovery System is INA.

Here is Dimensions information for the Shahed-136 Iranian Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is 3.5 m.
The Width is 2.5 m.
The Height is INA.
The Maximum Takeoff Weight is 200 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Shahed-136 Iranian Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is 1 x conventional engine driving two-bladed propeller unit at the rear of the fuselage in pusher arrangement..
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 185 km/h.
The Cruising Speed is INA.
The Service Ceiling is INA.
The Maximum Distance is 2,000 km.
The Endurance is INA.

Here is Armament information for the Shahed-136 Iranian Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Warhead is 1 x 40 kg warhead.

