This document describes the Bayraktar Akıncı Turkish Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The Bayraktar Akıncı (Turkish pronunciation: [Bayraktar Akıncı]) is a high-altitude long-endurance unmanned combat aerial vehicle controlled by satellite currently under mass production under Turkish drone manufacturer Baykar Makina. It carries electronic support systems, dual satellite communication systems, air-to-air radar, collision avoidance radar, and synthetic aperture radar. First pictures of the UAV hit media reports in June 2018. Initial media reports described Akinci as a 4.5 ton UCAV capable of deploying about 1.5-ton payload with an airframe equipped with two turboprop engines.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Turkey.

Here is Ground Control Station information for the Bayraktar Akıncı Turkish Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) of the System:
The BLOS Operations is BLOS operations can be supported over existing worldwide satellite networks and attendant ground data terminals..
The SATCOM data terminals is SATCOM data terminals can be supplied.
The Trailer Type Ground Control Station is Yes.
The Intercomm Systems and Tactical Radio Systems is Yes.
The NATO Spec Shelter Systems is Yes.
The Pilot Console Multi Function is Yes.
The Payload Operator Console is Yes.
The Radar Operator Console is Yes.
The Imagery Analysis Console is Yes.
The Maintenance Technician Console is Yes.
The Power Systems is Yes.
The Air Conditioning is Yes.
The NBC Filtering System is Yes.
The Note is The Bayraktar AKINCI uses triple bands for LOS control and video transmission..

Here is Dimensions information for the Bayraktar Akıncı Turkish Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is 12.2 m.
The Wingspan is 20 m.
The Height is 4.1 m.
The Maximum Takeoff Weight is 5,500 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Bayraktar Akıncı Turkish Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is 2 x Turboprop.
The Engine Power is 750 hp.
The Maximum Speed is 361.14 km/h.
The Maximum Altitude is 12,192 m.
The Operational Altitude is 9,144 m.
The Endurance is Up to 24 hours.

Here is Main Weapon System information for the Bayraktar Akıncı Turkish Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Hardpoints is 8.
The Payload Weapons is Laser Guided Smart Munitions, Missiles & Longe Range Stand off Weapons.
The Internal Capacity is 400 kg.
The External Capacity is 950 kg.
The Note is With its triple redundant electronics hardware and software systems Bayraktar AKINCI is capable of carrying the following payloads:

•    Mini Smart Munition MAM-L;
•    Mini Smart Munition MAM – C;
•    Cirit Missile;
•    L-UMTAS Missile;
•    Mini Smart Munition Bozok;
•    MK-81, MK-82, MK-83 Guided Bombs (JDAM);
•    Wing Assisted Guided Bomb MK-82;
•    Air to Air Missile Gokdogan and Bozdogan;
•    Stand-Off Missile SOM-A.

