This document describes the Sammad-1 Yemeni Reconnaissance Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The Samad (Arabic: صماد‎) (also spelled Sammad) is a family of long-range UAVs of unidentified origin used in the Middle East. The Samad is available in three variants: The Samad-1, the Samad-2 (also known as "UAV-X"), and the Samad-3. The Samad family of UAVs is primarily used by the Houthi movement in the Yemeni civil war, where the drone's long range is used to strike targets in Saudi Arabia and the UAE. The Samad-1 is the base variant. It has a wingspan of approximately 3.5 meters. It has a range of 500 km and is for surveillance.

The Samad is available in three models. All models have distinctive V-shaped tail fins and a pusher engine. Samad UAVs have a ventral protrusion and wing skids, which they use for takeoff and landing.

The Houthis say they have designed and manufactured the Samad family of drones. They say that the Samad 1 was designed in 2018 and the Samad Samad 2 and Samad 3 in 2019. Independent analysts say the Samad-2 is probably of Iranian origin. According to James Rogers, of the Center for War Studies at the University of Southern Denmark, the Samad 3 is believed to be supplied by Iran.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Iran (Islamic Republic of), Yemen.

Here is Variants information for the Sammad-1 Yemeni Reconnaissance Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Sammad-1 is The Sammad-1 is the base variant. It has a wingspan of approximately 3.5 meters.[7] It has a range of 500 km and is for surveillance..
The Sammad-2 (UAV-X) is The Sammad-2 is 2.8 meters long and has a wingspan of 4.5 meters. It has distinctive V-shaped tail fins and is powered by a rear-mounted German or Chinese pusher-engine. It is also known as the "UAV-X", the provisional designation given to it in a UN report. The Samad-2 can carry either a reconnaissance or an explosive payload. The reconnaissance version carries a camera, a Nikon D810 digital camera in one model. The attack variant has a warhead of 18 kg of explosives mixed with ball bearings..
The Sammad-3 is The Samad-3 is an "extended-range" version with a conformal fuel tank mounted on the top of the drone. The dimensions are estimated at 4.5m wingspan, like the Samad-2. According to the Houthis, it has a range of 1,500 km and carries an explosive payload. Qualitatively, the Samad-3 is described as "inexpensive, small, slow and clumsy" and unlikely to strike targets with good accuracy..

Here is System information for the Sammad-1 Yemeni Reconnaissance Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is Sammad-1.
The Type is Reconnaissance Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is INA.
The Mission is The Samad family of UAVs is primarily used by the Houthi movement in the Yemeni civil war, where the drone's long range is used to strike targets in Saudi Arabia and the UAE..
The Electro-Optical Reconnaissance System is The Samad-1 appears to be equipped with an electro-optical reconnaissance system along with two data links, likely for control and live broadcast..

Here is Dimensions information for the Sammad-1 Yemeni Reconnaissance Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is 2.80 m.
The Wingspan is 3.5 m.
The Height is INA.
The Weight is INA.

Here is Automotive information for the Sammad-1 Yemeni Reconnaissance Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is 1 × Chinese-made DLE 170 or German-made 3W110i B2 engine.
The Engine Type is INA.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 200–250 km/h.
The Maximum Distance is 500 km.
The Maximum Altitude is INA.
The Endurance is INA.

Here is Armament information for the Sammad-1 Yemeni Reconnaissance Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Note is The UAV is not believed to be capable of carrying weapons of any type. However, the Houthis can likely equip Samad-1 with a warhead and use it as a suicide UAV, similar to other types..

