This document describes the 3M-14 Kalibr (SS-N-30A) Russian Long-Range Cruise Missile.

The Kalibr cruise missiles are believed to be the land-attack version the Klub (Club) family.
Although commonly referred to as the Kalibr cruise missile in media reports, the SS-N-30A is in fact just one part of the larger Kalibr family of Russian sea-launched missiles, which includes the SS-N-27 (Sizzler) anti-ship cruise missile and the 91R anti-submarine missile. All three Kalibr missiles share common Kalibr vertical launch system (VLS) tubes, which are quickly becoming a mainstay of the Russian Navy’s cruise missile launch capabilities.
Russia plans to equip most of its submarines and surface ships with the respective versions of the Klub anti-ship and Kalibr land-attack cruise missiles. 
Novator Design Bureau, the designers of the Klub launch system, have developed a shipping container version of the launcher, capable of holding up to four missiles. This shipping container version allows the cruise missile to be forward deployed on ships, trucks, and trains without detection.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is Variants information for the 3M-14 Kalibr (SS-N-30A) Russian Long-Range Cruise Missile:
The 3M-54T Kalibr-NK is Export version with a 300km range..
The 3M-14K Kalibr-PL is The 3M-14K Kalibr-PL is similar to the 3M-14T except that is launched from a submarine. This variant was reported to have been launched from an improved Kilo-class submarine in the Mediterranean to strike targets inside Syria in December 2015..

Here is Payload information for the 3M-14 Kalibr (SS-N-30A) Russian Long-Range Cruise Missile:
The Warhead Type is Single.
The Warhead Options is HE, possibly nuclear capable.
The Nuclear Yield is INA.
The Conventional Warhead Weight is 450.
The Conventional Warheads Available is HE.
The Multiple Independent Reentry Vehicle (MIRV) Capable is Yes, 1, yield unknown.

Here is Propulsion Characteristics information for the 3M-14 Kalibr (SS-N-30A) Russian Long-Range Cruise Missile:
The Engine is Turbojet.
The Stages is 2.
The Propellant is 1st stage liquid-fuel booster; 2nd stage solid-fuel, turbojet engine.
The Speed is 965.
The Flight Ceiling is 1,000.
The Attack Altitude is 20m over sea; 50m over ground.

Here is Fire Control information for the 3M-14 Kalibr (SS-N-30A) Russian Long-Range Cruise Missile:
The Guidance System is Inertial; TERCOM; GLONASS GPS; Terminal-Phase Active Radar Seeker.

