This document describes the Misagh-1 Iranian Man-Portable Surface-to-Air Missile System (MANPADS).

Hezbollah and Houthi Proliferation. The Misagh 1 (also Mithaq-1, etc.) is an Iranian man-portable surface-to-air missile. It was developed by the Shahid Kazemi Industrial Complex in Tehran. It is a variant or reverse-engineered clone of the Chinese QW-1 Vanguard missile system and is comparable to the Soviet SA-16 Gimlet missile. It is used by Iran and has been exported to Hezbollah in Lebanon and to the Popular Mobilization Forces in Iraq and to Syria as well.

The MANPADS was supplemented by the newer Misagh-2 missile system.

Visually, the Misagh-1 is virtually indistinguishable from the QW-1 it is cloned from, other QW-series missiles, the Misagh-2 upgrade, and Pakistan's Anza missiles.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Non-State Actors, Syria, Yemen.

Here is Variants information for the Misagh-1 Iranian Man-Portable Surface-to-Air Missile System (MANPADS):
The Misagh-2 is The Misagh-2 is an Iranian man-portable infrared-guided surface-to-air missile. The Misagh-2 is the successor to the Misagh-1. Like its predecessor, the Misagh-2 is based on Chinese technology.[1] Iran’s defense minister launched the domestic mass production of the Misagh-2 on 5 February 2006. This missile destroys its target within 5 second and has an operation temperature of -40°C to +60°C. Near the target its speed reaches 2.7+ Mach..

Here is Missile System information for the Misagh-1 Iranian Man-Portable Surface-to-Air Missile System (MANPADS) of the System:
The Name is Misagh-1.
The Type is Man-Portable Surface-to-Air Missile System (MANPADS).
The Proliferation  is HEZBOLLAH.
The Manufacturer is Shahid Shah Abhady Industrial Complex.
The Crew is 1.
The Engine is Solid Rocket Motor.
The Guidance System is Passive infrared homing.
The Navigation System is The missile is guided by proportional navigation to the impact point with the target, whereupon a target adaptive homing circuit cuts in just before impact to ensure maximum damage is caused. Once the missile is launched, the gunner is free to seek protective shelter or make ready for the next engagement..
The Operation is Normally operated as part of a two-man team the gunners can, on the march, carry the system on their backs by means of a harness. The operating sequence is as follows. The gunner is alerted by visual detection of a target. The assistant then selects a firing site and removes the front and rear covers of the launcher tube and raises it to the shoulder firing position. If identified as hostile, the firing trigger is depressed part way to activate the electric battery and coolant bottle to provide power and gas to the missile's systems. The gunner then aims at and tracks the target until continuous audio and visual signals are received. These indicate seeker lock on. The gunner then sets the lead angle and depresses the firing trigger all the way. Between 0.3 and 0.8 seconds later, the booster motor sends the missile out of the firing tube to a safe point where it is jettisoned and the dual-thrust sustainer motor kicks in to power the missile in flight..
The Reaction Time is 5 to 10 sec.
The Speed is 600.
The Maximum Engagement Altitude is 4,000 m.
The Minimum Engagement Altitude is 30 m.
The Maximum Engagement Range is 500 m.
The Minimum Engagement Range is 5,000 m.
The Warhead Type is HE-fragmentation.
The Fuze is Impact.

Here is Dimensions information for the Misagh-1 Iranian Man-Portable Surface-to-Air Missile System (MANPADS):
The Length is 1.477.
The Diameter is 0.71 m.
The Height is INA.
The Weight is 16.9.
The Warhead Weight is 1.42.

