This document describes the HOT-3 French Air-to-Ground Missile.

The HOT (French: Haut subsonique Optiquement Téléguidé Tiré d'un Tube, or High Subsonic, Optical, Remote-Guided, Tube-Launched) is a second-generation long-range anti-tank missile system developed originally as an effort to meet a joint German-French Army requirement, by the then German firm Bölkow and the French firm Nord, to replace the older SS.11 wire guided missile which was in service with both nations. A few years later, Bölkow and Nord merged into MBB and Aérospatiale respectively, both of which firms later formed Euromissile to design and produce the MILAN, Roland and HOT.

This firm (now MBDA), is a joint corporation of French and German defense firms. The HOT has become one of the most successful missiles of its class, with tens of thousands of missiles produced, used by no fewer than a dozen countries worldwide, and validated in combat in several wars. The missile system is also commonly mounted on light and medium armored vehicles, and attack helicopters.

HOT entered limited production in 1976, with mass production of 800 missiles a month reached in 1978. HOT initially became operational with the German and French armies fitted to specialized armored antitank vehicles. In addition, Euromissile was in the enviable position of having large export orders from Middle East nations at the start of mass production. This was likely due to the situation in the late 1970s where many nations did not want to rely solely on arms purchases from the Soviets combined with the U.S. Congress restrictions on the export sales of the TOW antitank missile.

In Europe, the end of the service life of the HOT missile system is in sight with the French opting to purchase Hellfire II missiles for their Tiger-HAD attack helicopters and the Germans planning to transition to the PARS 3 LR. Austria has decommissioned its HOT-carrying tank destroyers, while Spain is transitioning to Spike missiles to replace their HOT missile inventory. The HOT missile continues to be in widespread use in other areas of the world.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Angola, Austria, Cameroon, China, Cyprus, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Germany, Iraq, Kuwait, Lebanon, Morocco, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Syria, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates.

Here is Variants information for the HOT-3 French Air-to-Ground Missile:
The HOT 1 is Designation HOT,  Length 1.27 m/ Diameter 136 mm/ Wingspan 0.31 m/ Launch weight 23.5 kg/ Warhead 5 kg HEAT/ Armor penetration (est.)   800 mm/ Range 75–4,000 m/ Speed  864 km/h//.
The HOT 2/-2MP is Designation HOT-2/-2MP/ Length 1.30 m/ Diameter 150 mm/ Wingspan 0.31 m/  Launch weight 23.5 kg/  Warhead 5 kg HEAT/ Armor penetration (est.)   900 mm/ 350mm (-2MP)/ Range 75–4,000 m/ Speed  864 km/h//.

Here is System information for the HOT-3 French Air-to-Ground Missile:
The  is .
The  is .
The  is .

Here is Helicopter Launched Anti-Tank Guided Missile information for the HOT-3 French Air-to-Ground Missile:
The Name is HOT-3 (French: Haut subsonique Optiquement Téléguidé Tiré d'un Tube).
The Type is Anti-tank Guided.
The Manufacturer is MBDA.
The Length is 1.3m.
The Diameter is 0.15m.
The Missile Weight is 24.5kg.
The Minimum Range is 75m.
The Maximum Range is 4,300m.
The Missile Velocity is 864 km/h.
The Armor Penetration is 1250mm.
The Warhead Type is Tandem charge HEAT.
The Guidance is Semi-automatic command to line of sight (SACLOS).
The Engine is Two-stage solid fuel rocket.

