This document describes the Ka-28 (Helix) Russian Anti-Submarine Helicopter.

KA-28
The Ka-28 helicopter is an export version of the Ka-27 anti-sub and rescue helicopter of the Russian Navy. Aircraft of the type were mass-produced in Kumertau, with a total of 267 built. By 2000, 33 Ka-28s were assembled. They were sold to China, India, Vietnam, Syria, Yugoslavia and Cuba. Under the 1998 contract, five Ka-28 anti-sub helicopters and three Ka-27PS search and rescue ones were delivered to China, three in 1999 and five in 2000.

The ship-based anti-submarine helicopter KA-28 is intended to be used to search, to track and to destroy submarines in under-water and above-water positions, day and night, in simple and complicated weather conditions at the depth of their immersion up to 500 m and travel speeds up to 75 km/h, in the regions being remote from the point of the helicopter basing at the distance up to 200 km.

These tasks are fulfilled at the flights from the land aerodromes and from the deck a ship at the sea disturbance up to 5 number. The helicopter is equipped with the inflatable ballonnets system allowing to carry out an emergent landing of the helicopter on the water surface, and also with the blade folding mechanism what makes it possible to considerably diminish the overall dimensions at its storage in the hangars of ships and aerodromes.

Coaxial Ka-28 helicopter has two rotors of 15.9-m diameter each. The polymeric composite blades are equipped with electrical thermal de-icing system and blade folding system allowing to keep the helicopter in the ship hangars. Compact airframe with the empennage of a fixed-wing A/C type has four-leg non-retractable landing gear for operating the helicopter from ship decks in the sea state conditions of up to ±10 degrees.

The export version of Ka-28 is developed on the basis of Ka-27 and differs from it by some on-board equipment units, "friend-or-foe" identification system and larger fuel system capacity - 4,470 l. The operating ratings of TV3-117VMA engines, developed by the company, headed by Mr. A. Sarkisov, Designer General, were supplemented by higher-power emergency rating in case one of the engines fails.

Due to the unique qualities of a coaxial rotor layout the helicopter features high power-to-weight ratio, small dimensions, maneuverability, simplicity of control and safety of flight operations from ship decks in stringent sea conditions and turbulent atmosphere. Simplicity of piloting techniques and perfect flight-navigational package make it possible for one pilot to fly prolonged combat missions above reference-free water surface in any time of the year, day-and-night, and in IFR conditions.

After the target is detected the on-board avionics suite in combination with the automatic control system of the helicopter solve the task of bringing the helicopter to the designated point and automatic firing of the weapons selected by the pilot.

The flight tests of the upgraded Ka-28 helicopter with new avionics have started to be over in mid-2007. The upgraded version features the Kopyo-A airborne radar developed by the Fazotron-NIIR corporation. The flight tests were expected to be over in the middle of 2008. Several foreign countries have initiated talks with the "Rosoboronexport" over modernization of Ka-28 helicopters supplied to them by the Soviet Union earlier. The "Kopyo-A" new long-range airborne radar has surveillance radius of 250 km. It is a pulse-Doppler X-band multimode radar with high resolution. Kopyo-A ensures all-weather 360-deg surveillance in maritime border patrols. In addition to its main functions, the radar allows making high-resolution maps, as well as identifying and tracking up to ten water objects, searching and detecting aerial targets. It can also be used for navigation, and missile guidance. He added that modernized Ka-28s would be able to launch X-35 air-to-surface and air-to-ship guided missiles. Chinese helicopters have most advanced "Izumrud" (Emerald) search radar system installed.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Algeria, China, India, Russian Federation, South Korea (Republic of Korea), Syria, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam.

Here is Variants information for the Ka-28 (Helix) Russian Anti-Submarine Helicopter:
The Ka-27PL (Helix-A) is baseline anti-submarine warfare helicopter..
The Ka-27PS (Helix-D) is is a search and rescue helicopter..
The Ka-27M is s a recent improved version. It is being tested and evaluated by the Russian Navy. This helicopter has got new radar and some other improvements..
The Ka-28 (Helix-A) is is an export version of the Ka-27PL ordered by China, India, Vietnam and Yugoslavia. This version has a revised avionics suite..
The Ka-29 (Helix-B) is is a naval assault transport helicopter. This helicopter is intended especially for the support of Russian Navy's amphibious operations and featuring a substantially changed airframe. The type entered service in 1985. About 59 of these helicopters were produced. These are in service with Russia and Ukraine..
The Ka-31 is is an airborne early warning helicopter, based on the basic Ka-29. Its main mission is a long-range detection of airborne and naval threats..
The Ka-32 (Helix-C) is is a simplified civilian version. It is used in Russia and has been exported to a number of countries. It is even used by some Western countries..
The Ka-32K is is a civilian flying crane..
The Ka-32S is is a specialized version, designed to operate from icebreakers. It can be used for ice patrolling, search and rescue, oil rig support, and other tasks. This version is fitted with a radar..
The Ka-32T is is a civilian transport helicopter. It lacks radar and has simplified avionics. It can carry passengers or freight. It has a payload capacity of 4 000 kg internally or 5 000 kg externally..

Here is System information for the Ka-28 (Helix) Russian Anti-Submarine Helicopter:
The Alternative Designation is Kamov Ka-28;.
The Primary Function is Anti-submarine warfare helicopter.
The Manufacturer is Kamov.
The In Service is 1982-Present.
The Crew is 2 (pilot, navigator) + 1-3 sensor operators.
The Passenger is The main cabin holds ASW gear or up to 16 passengers.
The Blades, Main Rotor is 6.
The Blades, Tail Rotor is No Rail Rotor.
The Number of Engines is 2.
The Day/Night Capable is Yes, due to the Automatic Flight Control System.
The Takeoff or Landing Limitations is INA.
The All Weather Capable is Yes, due to the Automatic Flight Control System.
The Number of Hard Points is INA.
The Stabilizer is horizontal stabilizer (with elevators) fitted with endplate fins and full-height rudders.
The Auto-hovering is Yes.
The Automatic Flight Control System is Yes.
The Landing Gear is Fixed, quadricycle landing gear.
The Note is One fully articulated, three-blade assembly is carried close to the roof, rotating counter-clockwise when seen from above. The other three-blade hub is fitted to the upper end of the mast and rotates clockwise. Each assembly has its own pitch change mechanism and each has folding blades. The blades are of all-composite construction and the main rotor hub is made of titanium and steel..

Here is Dimensions information for the Ka-28 (Helix) Russian Anti-Submarine Helicopter:
The Length is 11.30.
The Width is 5.65.
The Height is 5.40.
The Main Rotor Diameter is 15.90.
The Disc Area is 199 m sq.
The Weight, Empty is 6,400.
The Weight, Normal Takeoff is 10,700.
The Weight, Maximum Takeoff is 11,000.
The Weight, Internal Payload is 4,000.
The Cabin Length is 4.52.
The Cabin Width is 1.30.
The Cabin Height is 1.32.

Here is Automotive information for the Ka-28 (Helix) Russian Anti-Submarine Helicopter:
The Engine Name is 2 x Isotov TV3-117KM turboshaft.
The Engine Power is 2,200 shaft hp each.
The Cruising Range is 800.
The Speed, Maximum is 250.
The Speed, Cruise is 230.
The Internal Fuel Capacity is 4,720 liters.
The Ceiling is 6,000.
The Hovering Ceiling is 3,500.

Here is Communications information for the Ka-28 (Helix) Russian Anti-Submarine Helicopter:
The Radio is Various depending on country and mission.

Here is Torpedoe System information for the Ka-28 (Helix) Russian Anti-Submarine Helicopter of the Wing Mounted Weapons:
The Name is Torped 45.
The Type is lightweight torpedo intended for ASW and surface targets, providing multiple-target active/passive homing combined with wire guidance..
The Manufacturer is Saab Dynamics (Sweden).
The In Service is 1995-Present.
The Length is 2,850.
The Diameter is 400.
The Weight is 320.
The Engine is Electric DC motor with gearbox.
The Basic Load is 3.
The Guidance System is Hydro-acoustic homing combined with wire guidance and on-board computer.

Here is Bomb System information for the Ka-28 (Helix) Russian Anti-Submarine Helicopter of the Wing Mounted Weapons:
The Note is Additionally, the Ka-27 can carry  10 x PLAB 250-120 anti-submarine bombs.

Here is Fire Control and Avionics information for the Ka-28 (Helix) Russian Anti-Submarine Helicopter:
The Fire Control System Type is INA.
The Fire Control Radar is INA.
The Digital or Analog Cockpit is INA.
The Direct Fire Control is INA.
The Laser Designator is INA.
The Submarine Search Radar is Osminog in undernose radome.
The Doppler Radar is DISS-15 Doppler navigational.
The Position Location System is Yes.
The Navigation System is NKV-252 navigation system.
The Gyroscope is MGV-1V gyroscopic system.
The Radio Compass is A-031 radio compass.
The Flight System is PKV-252 flight system.

Here is Protection information for the Ka-28 (Helix) Russian Anti-Submarine Helicopter:
The Fuselage is The fuselage resembles that of the Hormone and has a similar semi-monocoque pod and boom type that has been stretched approximately 5 ft (1.5 m)..
The Cockpit Glass is unstepped windshield.
The Stealth Properties is No.
The Heat Signature Reduction is INA.
The Add on Armor is INA.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The EW is INA.
The EW Counter Measures/CCM is INA.
The Counter Measures (Chaff/Flares) is INA.

