This document describes the HY-2 (CSS-C-3 Seersucker) Chinese Short-Range Anti-Ship Cruise Missile.

The HY-2 is identical to the HY-1 but with a further stretched body. The missile features a round nose accommodating the radar seeker, a pair of mid-mounted delta wings on the middle section of the missile body, and three tail control surfaces. The missile is powered by a liquid-fuel rocket motor, with a solid rocket booster attached under the missile fuselage.

The HY-2 is launched from the land-based launcher and flies at an altitude of 1000 m during the initial stage of the flight. After the missile switched to the cruising mode, the flight altitude was reduced to 100 ~ 300 m. During the final stage of the flight, the missile switched on its radar seeker and dives to an altitude of 8 m until it hits the target. The single-shot hit probability is estimated to be 90%. Due to its oversized body, the HY-2 did not develop a ship-to-ship variant. The missile is obsolete and will be replaced by the YJ-8 series in the future.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Bangladesh, China, Cuba, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Myanmar, Sudan.

Here is Variants information for the HY-2 (CSS-C-3 Seersucker) Chinese Short-Range Anti-Ship Cruise Missile:
The HY-2 is Basic variant radar-guidance land-to-ship missile *developed from the HY-1 missile..
The HY-2A is IR-guidance variant..
The HY-2AII is Improved variant of the HY-2A..
The HY-2B is Improved radar guidance variant with a monopulse radar seeker replacing the original conical scanning radar..
The HY-2BII is Improved variant of the HY-2B with a newly designed radar seeker..
The C-201 is Export designation for HY-2..
The C-201W is Extended-range variant powered by a turbojet engine replacing the original liquid-fuel rocket motor. Export only..
The YJ-6 is Air launched variant of the HY-2..
The YJ-61 is Improved variant of the YJ-6..

Here is System information for the HY-2 (CSS-C-3 Seersucker) Chinese Short-Range Anti-Ship Cruise Missile:
The  is .
The  is .
The  is .

Here is Missile information for the HY-2 (CSS-C-3 Seersucker) Chinese Short-Range Anti-Ship Cruise Missile of the HY-2 (CSS-C-3 Seersucker) Anti-Ship Cruise Missile:
The Name is HY-2; NATO: CSS-C-3 Seersucker.
The Type is Anti-Ship Cruise Missile.
The Basic Load is INA.
The Manufactuer is Nanchang Aircraft Factory (Chinese).
The Length is 7.48 m.
The Diameter is 0.76 m.
The Wingspan is 2.4 m.
The Weight, Total is 2,998 kg.
The Warhead Type is Shaped charge high explosive.
The Warhead Weight is 513 kg.
The Propulsion is One liquid rocket engine and one solid rocket booster.
The Speed is Mach 0.8.
The Range is 200 km.
The Cruising Altitude is < 20 meters.
The Guidanc System is Inertial + active conical scanning terminal guidance radar (HY-2); or inertial + infrared homing guidance (HY-2A); or inertial + monopulse active radar (HY-2B).
The Single-Shot Kill Probability is 90%.

