This document describes the Ka-27 (Helix) Russian Anti-Submarine Helicopter.

Ka-27 (Helix) Russian Anti-Submarine Helicopter is an improved version of the Ka-25. The fuselage was redesigned to give a large increase in cabin room, with only a small increase in external dimensions. This allows the Ka-27 to operate from the same ships as the Ka-25. As the 1960s drew to a close, the need arose for a new shipboard anti-submarine warfare helicopter to replace the Soviet Navy's main ASW chopper, the Kamov Ka-25 which was becoming obsolescent. The objective was to greatly increase the payload, internal volume, and engine power while still allowing the helicopter to use the same deck helipads and shipboard hangars.

The design bureau led by Nikolay Il'yich Kamov started work on the new ASW helicopter in 1969. Given the size requirements, the engineers logically chose to retain the preceding model's contra-rotating rotor layout - a feature that had been a Kamov "trademark" from the start. Initially designated Ka-252 (though the designation was later changed to Ka-27), the prototype made its first hover on 8th August 1973 and the first free flight on 24th December 1973. After a period of rigorous testing, the helicopter officially entered service with the Soviet Navy in 1981.

The KA-27 helicopter is intended to be used for the search-rescue provision of aircraft flights over the sea and the land, and also for the provision of emergency-rescue operations at the disasters of ships and vessels, day and night time, in simple and complicated weather conditions at the sea roughness up to 5 number, alone and in combination with ships. To carry out rescue operations, the helicopter is equipped with a winch with a lifting capacity of 300 kg.

The flight-navigation complex of the helicopter allows to conduct an automatically controlled flight of the helicopter according to the pre-set route, a landing of the helicopter on the deck a ship and unloading of the ship without the stoppage of the latter, an autonomous hovering of the helicopter over the pre-determined point, and together with the radar "Osminog", leading out of the helicopter into the point of the flight pre-set by the pilot.

An inflatable ballonet system ensures the floatage of the helicopter in case of its emergency landing on the water surface. The blade folding mechanism allows considerably diminished overall dimensions of the helicopter at its storage in the hangars of ships and aerodromes.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Algeria, China, India, Russian Federation, South Korea (Republic of Korea), Syria, Ukraine, Viet Nam.

Here is Variants information for the Ka-27 (Helix) Russian Anti-Submarine Helicopter:
The Ka-27PL (Helix-A) is baseline anti-submarine warfare helicopter..
The Ka-27PS (Helix-D) is is a search and rescue helicopter..
The Ka-27M is s a recent improved version. It is being tested and evaluated by the Russian Navy. This helicopter has got new radar and some other improvements..
The Ka-28 (Helix-A) is is an export version of the Ka-27PL ordered by China, India, Vietnam and Yugoslavia. This version has a revised avionics suite..
The Ka-29 (Helix-B) is is a naval assault transport helicopter. This helicopter is intended especially for the support of Russian Navy's amphibious operations and featuring a substantially changed airframe. The type entered service in 1985. About 59 of these helicopters were produced. These are in service with Russia and Ukraine..
The Ka-31 is is an airborne early warning helicopter, based on the basic Ka-29. Its main mission is a long-range detection of airborne and naval threats..
The Ka-32 (Helix-C) is is a simplified civilian version. It is used in Russia and has been exported to a number of countries. It is even used by some Western countries..
The Ka-32K is is a civilian flying crane..
The Ka-32S is is a specialized version, designed to operate from icebreakers. It can be used for ice patrolling, search and rescue, oil rig support, and other tasks. This version is fitted with a radar..
The Ka-32T is is a civilian transport helicopter. It lacks radar and has simplified avionics. It can carry passengers or freight. It has a payload capacity of 4 000 kg internally or 5 000 kg externally..
The Ka-29/Ka-29TB is Naval assault transport helicopter. The Ka-29TB (Transportno Boyevoy) is a dedicated assault transport derivative of the Ka-27 family, intended especially for the support of naval amphibious operations and featuring a substantially changed airframe. The Ka-29TB features an entirely new, much widened forward fuselage, with a flight deck seating three members of the crew side-by-side, one of these crew members acting as a gunner to aim the various types of weapons carried on the four hardpoints of the helicopter's pair of strut-braced lateral pylons, and the trainable 7.62 mm machine-gun hidden behind and articulated door on the starboard side of the nose. In addition, the two-piece curved windscreen of the Ka-27 has given way to a five-piece unit.

   The Ka-29 accommodates 16 fully-equipped troops. Alternatively in the medical evacuation role it can carry 4 stretchers, 7 seated casualties and medical attendants. Also it can carry external loads on a sling with a maximum weight of 4 000 kg. This helicopter could be armed with 9M114 anti-tank guided missiles of the Shturm-V system (Western reporting name AT-6 or Spiral). Four anti-tank missiles per hardpoint can be carrier.  The Ka-29 can also carry pods with unguided 57 mm or 80 mm rockets, bombs, submunition dispensers and even torpedoes. It can also carry pods with 23 mm cannon and 250 rounds of ammunition each. There is provision for a 30 mm cannon, mounted above port outrigger with 250 round ammunition feed from the cabin. These weapons are used to support seaborne assault troops and to soften up enemy defenses.  The Ka-29 is also armored. It has 350 kg of armor around cockpit and engines.

   An air data boom projects form the port side of the nose, which also carries an electro-optical sensor to starboard and a missile guidance/illuminating and TFR pod to port.

   The Ka-29 can be deployed on ships, or coastal bases. This armed and armored helicopter requires no gunship escort and can operate on its own..

Here is System information for the Ka-27 (Helix) Russian Anti-Submarine Helicopter:
The Alternative Designation is Kamov Ka-27; Helix.
The Primary Function is Anti-submarine warfare helicopter.
The Manufacturer is Kamov.
The In Service is 1982-Present.
The Crew is 2 (pilot, navigator) + 1-3 sensor operators.
The Passenger is The main cabin holds ASW gear or up to 16 passengers.
The Blades, Main Rotor is 6.
The Blades, Tail Rotor is No Rail Rotor.
The Number of Engines is 2.
The Day/Night Capable is Yes, due to the Automatic Flight Control System.
The Takeoff or Landing Limitations is INA.
The All Weather Capable is Yes, due to the Automatic Flight Control System.
The Number of Hard Points is INA.
The Stabilizer is horizontal stabilizer (with elevators) fitted with endplate fins and full-height rudders.
The Auto-hovering is Yes.
The Automatic Flight Control System is Yes.
The Landing Gear is Fixed, quadricycle landing gear.
The Note is One fully articulated, three-blade assembly is carried close to the roof, rotating counter-clockwise when seen from above. The other three-blade hub is fitted to the upper end of the mast and rotates clockwise. Each assembly has its own pitch change mechanism and each has folding blades. The blades are of all-composite construction and the main rotor hub is made of titanium and steel..

Here is Dimensions information for the Ka-27 (Helix) Russian Anti-Submarine Helicopter:
The Length is 11.30.
The Width is 5.65.
The Height is 5.40.
The Main Rotor Diameter is 15.90.
The Weight, Empty is 6,400.
The Weight, Normal Takeoff is 10,700.
The Weight, Maximum Takeoff is 11,000.
The Weight, Internal Payload is 4,000.
The Cabin Length is 4.52.
The Cabin Width is 1.30.
The Cabin Height is 1.32.
The Disc Area is 199 m sq.

Here is Automotive information for the Ka-27 (Helix) Russian Anti-Submarine Helicopter:
The Engine Name is 2 x Isotov TV3-117KM turboshaft.
The Engine Power is 2,200 shaft hp each.
The Cruising Range is 800.
The Speed, Maximum is 250.
The Speed, Cruise is 230.
The Internal Fuel Capacity is 4,720 liters.
The Ceiling is 6,000.
The Hovering Ceiling is 3,500.

Here is Communications information for the Ka-27 (Helix) Russian Anti-Submarine Helicopter:
The Radio is Various depending on country and mission.

Here is Torpedoe System information for the Ka-27 (Helix) Russian Anti-Submarine Helicopter of the Wing Mounted Weapons:
The Name is Torped 45.
The Type is lightweight torpedo intended for ASW and surface targets, providing multiple-target active/passive homing combined with wire guidance..
The Manufacturer is Saab Dynamics (Sweden).
The In Service is 1995-Present.
The Length is 2,850.
The Diameter is 400.
The Weight is 320.
The Engine is Electric DC motor with gearbox.
The Basic Load is 3.
The Guidance System is Hydro-acoustic homing combined with wire guidance and on-board computer.

Here is Bomb System information for the Ka-27 (Helix) Russian Anti-Submarine Helicopter of the Wing Mounted Weapons:
The Note is Additionally, the Ka-27 can carry  10 x PLAB 250-120 anti-submarine bombs.

Here is Fire Control and Avionics information for the Ka-27 (Helix) Russian Anti-Submarine Helicopter:
The Fire Control System Type is INA.
The Fire Control Radar is INA.
The Digital or Analog Cockpit is INA.
The Direct Fire Control is INA.
The Laser Designator is INA.
The Submarine Search Radar is Osminog in undernose radome.
The Doppler Radar is DISS-15 Doppler navigational.
The Position Location System is Yes.
The Navigation System is NKV-252 navigation system.
The Gyroscope is MGV-1V gyroscopic system.
The Radio Compass is A-031 radio compass.
The Flight System is PKV-252 flight system.

Here is Protection information for the Ka-27 (Helix) Russian Anti-Submarine Helicopter:
The Fuselage is The fuselage resembles that of the Hormone and has a similar semi-monocoque pod and boom type that has been stretched approximately 5 ft (1.5 m)..
The Cockpit Glass is unstepped windshield.
The Stealth Properties is No.
The Heat Signature Reduction is INA.
The Add on Armor is INA.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The EW is INA.
The EW Counter Measures/CCM is INA.
The Counter Measures (Chaff/Flares) is INA.

