This document describes the Type 081 Class (Wochi Class) Chinese Mine Countermeasure Vessel.

Type 081 mine countermeasure vessel with NATO reporting name Wochi class is a Chinese minesweeper/mine hunter currently in service with the People's Liberation Army Navy (PLAN).

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is Variants information for the Type 081 Class (Wochi Class) Chinese Mine Countermeasure Vessel:
The ZHANGJIAGANG is Commissioned: 2007
Status: Active.
The JINGJIANG is Commissioned: 2007
Status: Active.
The LIUYANG is Commissioned: 2007
Status: Active.
The LUXI is Commissioned: 2007
Status: Active.

Here is System information for the Type 081 Class (Wochi Class) Chinese Mine Countermeasure Vessel:
The Alternative Designation is T-43 Class.
The Type is Mine Countermeasure Vessel.
The Builder is Qiuxin Shipyard, Shanghai, China.
The Crew is INA.
The Crane is A Crane is mounted on the stern deck.
The Sensors is The onboard systems includes a modern Command System with built in advanced combat systems, modern display consoles, radars, GPS, and Navigation..

Here is Dimensions information for the Type 081 Class (Wochi Class) Chinese Mine Countermeasure Vessel:
The Length is 67 m.
The Beam is 10 m.
The Draft is INA.
The Displacement, Standard is INA.
The Displacement, Full Load is 600 tons.

Here is Propulsion System information for the Type 081 Class (Wochi Class) Chinese Mine Countermeasure Vessel:
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Range is INA.
The Maximum Speed is INA.

Here is Gun Weapon Systems information for the Type 081 Class (Wochi Class) Chinese Mine Countermeasure Vessel:
The Name is Type 76F.
The Type is Twin Naval Gun.
The Caliber is 37mm.
The Note is The Type 76F was a development to overcome the earlier Type 76's inherent shortcomings: due to the open mount, the Type 76 was subject to natural elements such as salinity and humidity, thus requiring constant maintenance. In addition, the Type 76 had no direct link to a fire-control system (FCS). The Type 76F was developed to solve this problem by adopting a fully enclosed turret which included an electro-optical (optronic) FCS. The entire system can be handled by a single crew member housed in a one-man operator console integrated with the gun. Today, the Type 76F remains in service aboard many auxiliary vessels of the Chinese navy while the more advanced and more costly Type 76A is used by surface combatants..

Here is Fire Control Systems information for the Type 081 Class (Wochi Class) Chinese Mine Countermeasure Vessel:
The FCS Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is Yes, for the Type 76F twin 37mm Naval Gun..
The Battle Management System is No.

Here is Radar Systems information for the Type 081 Class (Wochi Class) Chinese Mine Countermeasure Vessel:
The Navigation Radar is INA.

Here is Sonar Systems information for the Type 081 Class (Wochi Class) Chinese Mine Countermeasure Vessel:
The Name is INA.
The Location is Hull Mounted.

Here is Protection information for the Type 081 Class (Wochi Class) Chinese Mine Countermeasure Vessel:
The Active Protection System is None.
The Countermeasures is INA.
The NBC Water Washdown System is INA.

