This document describes the M1132 (Stryker AVLB) American Armored Vehicle-Launched Bridge Carrier.

M1132 (Stryker AVLB) American Armored Vehicle-Launched Bridge Carrier.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: CFE Treaty, United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the M1132 (Stryker AVLB) American Armored Vehicle-Launched Bridge Carrier:
The M1126 ICV is Armored personnel carrier version that provides protected transport for 2 crew and a 9 man infantry squad..
The M1127 (RV) is Reconnaissance Vehicle. used by RSTA (Reconnaissance, Surveillance, and Target Acquisition) Squadrons and battalion scouts, moving throughout the battlefield to gather and transmit real-time intelligence/surveillance for situational awareness.
The M1128 (MGS) is Mobile Gun System. Version armed with a 105 mm M68A1 rifled cannon (M68A1E4).
The M1129 (MC) is Mortar Carrier. armed with Soltam 120 mm Mortar supports infantry with screening obscurants, suppressive forces and on-call supporting fires (HE, illumination, IR illumination, smoke, precision-guided, and DPICM cluster bombs)..
The M1133 (MEV) is Medical Evacuation Vehicle (MEV) is the Battalion Aid Station for brigade units, providing treatment for serious injury and advanced trauma..
The M1134 (ATGM) is Anti-Tank Guided Missile Vehicle is armed with the TOW missile to reinforce the brigade's infantry and reconnaissance, providing long-range antitank fires against armor beyond tank gun effective range..
The M1135 (NBC RV) is Nuclear, Biological, Chemical Reconnaissance Vehicle automatically integrates contamination information from detectors with input from navigation and meteorological systems and transmits digital NBC warning messages to warn follow-on forces..

Here is System information for the M1132 (Stryker AVLB) American Armored Vehicle-Launched Bridge Carrier:
The Alternative Designation is M1132 Stryker AVLB.
The Type is Armored Vehicle-Launched Bridge Carrier.
The Manufacturer is General Dynamic Land Systems, USA and Canada.
The Configuration is 8x8.
The Family is Stryker.
The Crew is 3.
The Passenger Capacity is 4.

Here is Bridging System information for the M1132 (Stryker AVLB) American Armored Vehicle-Launched Bridge Carrier:
The Pearson Jettison Fitting Kit is Fitting Kit at the front of the hull, and the bridge launching mechanism with the single-piece bridge is fitted to the Jettison kit..
The Hydraulic Power is Four hydraulic cylinders are used to articulate the bridge launching mechanism and two hydraulic cylinders are used to operate the bridge clamps..
The Towed Engineering Trailer is A trailer can be towed with additional equipment if required and the vehicle carries a selection of engineering tools for the dismounted crew..
The Bridge Military Load Class (MLC) is MLC 50.
The Bridge Weight is 3,000 kg.
The Bridge Length is 11.58 m.
The Bridge Width is 1.52 m.
The Maximum Gap Crossing Length is 10.05 m.

Here is Dimensions information for the M1132 (Stryker AVLB) American Armored Vehicle-Launched Bridge Carrier:
The Length is 6.95.
The Width is 2.72.
The Height is 2.64.
The Weight, Combat is 17,525.
The Ground Pressure is 2.05 kg / square centimeter.

Here is Automotive information for the M1132 (Stryker AVLB) American Armored Vehicle-Launched Bridge Carrier:
The Engine Name is Caterpillar C7.
The Engine Type is 7.2-liter Turbo Diesel.
The Engine Power is 350.
The Cruising Range is 500.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 100.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.
The Fording Depth is 1.3.

Here is Command & Control System information for the M1132 (Stryker AVLB) American Armored Vehicle-Launched Bridge Carrier:
The Battle Management System is FBCB2 (Force XXI battle command brigade and below).
The Digital is Yes, Utilizes digital communications system that allows comms between vehicles and higher headquarters through text messaging and a map network..
The Mission is Provides commanders with communication, data, and control functions to analyze and prepare information for combat missions; can also link to aircraft antenna for air to ground integration..

Here is Main Weapon System information for the M1132 (Stryker AVLB) American Armored Vehicle-Launched Bridge Carrier:
The Note is The baseline Stryker M1132 ESV platform is retained with its roof-mounted remote weapon station (RWS) retracted, while a Pearson Engineering Jettison Fitting Kit is fitted to the front of the hull to support the Bridge Launch Mechanism (BLM)..

Here is Protection information for the M1132 (Stryker AVLB) American Armored Vehicle-Launched Bridge Carrier:
The Hull Armor is Constructed from high-hardness steel which offers a basic level of protection against 14.5mm rounds on the frontal arc, and all-around protection against 7.62mm ball ammunition..
The Applique Armor is Equipped with bolt-on ceramic armor which offers all-around protection against 14.5mm, armor-piercing ammunition, and artillery fragments from 152mm rounds..
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is No.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is No.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is No.

