This document describes the Orion Russian Medium-Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The Orion Russian Medium-Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) is a military drone, reconnaissance, and drone for long-duration flight. The Orion is being developed for the Russian Aerial Forces, the Navy, and the Special Forces. Moreover, it has a civilian modification. Its military characteristics are classified, however, some basic civilian data was shared by the developers of the drone.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is Variants information for the Orion Russian Medium-Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Orion is Original Version..
The Orion-E is Export version of the Orion..
The Orion-2 is Also known as Helios, the Orion-2 is a larger version of the original Orion, with a bigger payload. It is classified as a high-altitude long-endurance (HALE) UAV, instead of the medium-altitude long-endurance (MALE) classification of the original Orion. It weighs 5-tonne (11,000-pound) with a wingspan of 30 meters (98.42 feet). It is intended to have an autonomy of 30 hours and fly at altitudes above 10,000 m. A first full-scale mock-up was unveiled on August 27, 2020, at the Kronstadt pilot plant. The first flight is planned for 2023. An export version of the Orion-2 exists as well..
The Inokhodets-RU (Sirius) is Also known as Sirius, the Inokhodets-RU is an upgraded variant of the Orion with a bigger and different design, the key particularity being mounted with two engines instead of one. The Sirius is a medium-altitude long-endurance (MALE) attack UAV from, with a wingspan of 30m, a length of 9m and a height of 3.3m, a maximum combat load of 450kg, a cruise speed of 295 km/h, a maximum altitude of 12,000m, and an endurance of 40 hours. A full-size mock-up of the 5t drone was presented for the first time at the MAKS-2019 International Aviation and Space Salon held at Zhukovsky International Airport near Moscow, Russia. The first flight is expected for 2022, to enter service in 2023..

Here is System information for the Orion Russian Medium-Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is Orion; (Export Version: Orion-E).
The Type is Medium-Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is Kronstadt Technologies - Russia.
The Mission is Ground Attack UAV, Close-Air Support (CAS); Reconnaissance.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Operator is 1.
The Range is 700 km.
The Thermal Imagers is Yes, 2 x Thermal Images.
The Camera is wide-angle TV camera.
The Laser Rangefinder is Yes, laser rangefinder/target designator.
The Payload Capacity is Orion can carry four guided bombs or four missiles and has maximum payload of 200 kg..
The Hardpoints is 4.

Here is Dimensions information for the Orion Russian Medium-Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is 8.0 m.
The Width is 16.0 m.
The Height is 2.0 m.
The Empty Weight is 500 kg.
The Maximum Take-off Weight is 1,000 kg.
The Payload Capacity is 200 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Orion Russian Medium-Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is 1 x conventional Engine of unknown make, model and power output..
The Engine Type is INA.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Propellers is Two-bladed propeller unit at the rear of the fuselage in pusher arrangement..
The Maximum Speed is 200 km/h.
The Range is 700 km.
The Maximum Altitude is 7,500 m.
The Endurance is 24 hours.

Here is Guided Missile System information for the Orion Russian Medium-Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) of the Armament:
The Name is Kh-50.
The Type is Guided Missile for UAV Application.
The Manufacturer is The kh-50 has been developed by a wide range of companies, including the Tactical Missiles Corporation (KTRV) and the Central Research and Scientific Institute of Chemical Machine-building (TsNIIKhM)..
The Location is Wing Mounted.
The Length is 1.8 m.
The Diameter is 180 mm.
The Fins is 300 mm.
The Weight is 50 kg.
The Range is INA.
The Warhead Type is High Explosive Fragmentation  (HE-FRAG).
The Warhead Weight is 10-20 kg.
The Basic Load is INA.

Here is Guided Bomb information for the Orion Russian Medium-Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) of the Armament:
The Name is KB-20.
The Type is Guided Bomb.
The Manufacturer is The KB-20 has been developed by a wide range of companies, including the Tactical Missiles Corporation (KTRV) and the Central Research and Scientific Institute of Chemical Machine-building (TsNIIKhM)..
The Location is Wing Mounted.
The Length is 900 mm.
The Diameter is 130 mm.
The Fins is 350 mm.
The Weight is 21 kg.
The Range is INA.
The Warhead Type is High Explosive Fragmentation  (HE-FRAG).
The Warhead Weight is 7 kg.
The Basic Load is INA.
The Note is The munition is designed to engage personnel and soft skinned targets..

Here is Protection information for the Orion Russian Medium-Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Fuselage is Monoplane design utilizes a single primary wing main plane; which represent the most popular main plane arrangement..
The Stealth Properties is None.
The Add on Armor is No.
The Counter Measures (Chaffs/Flares) is INA.

