This document describes the SS-N-26 (Strobile) Russian Short-Range Anti-Ship Cruise Missile.

The SS-N-26 Strobile was first developed in 1993 by NPO Mashinostroyenia. In 1999, they developed the ground-launched export version, the Yakhont, and an air-launched version, the Yakhont-M. A sub-launched version has been developed to be fitted to Yasen-class attack submarines, and the Bastion-P and Bastion-S launch systems have since been developed.  The Strobile was first deployed in 2002 on Russia’s Nakat-class missile ship.  Though originally designed to be an anti-ship missile, the Bastion missile launch systems were first deployed in 2015 with the Russian Army and the missiles were used in a surface to surface role.  In 1988, Russia and India collaborated on a joint venture called Brahmos Aerospace Ltd, which produced the Brahmos missile, a supersonic cruise missile based on the Yakhont.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Indonesia, Russian Federation, Syria, Viet Nam.

Here is Variants information for the SS-N-26 (Strobile) Russian Short-Range Anti-Ship Cruise Missile:
The 3M55 Oniks is Base version for Russia..
The Oniks-M is Version of Oniks with improved range (up to 800 km), accuracy and ECCM capabilities..
The P-800 Yakhont is Export version of Oniks..
The P-800 Bolid is Submarine-launched version of Yakhont..
The Brahmos is Co-developed by Russia and India, based on Oniks, produced by BrahMos Aerospace Private Limited in India. BrahMos-II, a hypersonic version is also being developed..
The Bastion-P System is Bastion-P is a coastal defense version of the P-800. It entered Russian service in 2010. The P-800 missile used in the Bastion-P remains essentially unchanged. Its launch platform is based upon a Belarusian MZKT-7930 special wheeled chassis. This gives the Bastion-P excellent mobility, including rough terrain. The Bastion-P launcher vehicle carries two P-800 missiles. 2019 media reporting indicates that the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation announced on 12 March that Russia’s Pacific Fleet in the Kamchatka Peninsula had received a new set of the K-300P Bastion-P mobile
coastal defense missile system as part of a modernization program. Additionally, there is reporting on Bastion-P deployments in the Arctic..
The Kh-61 is Air launched air to surface version..

Here is System information for the SS-N-26 (Strobile) Russian Short-Range Anti-Ship Cruise Missile:
The Alternate Designation is Yakhont, 3M55, Ruby, Kh-61, P-800 Oniks, Yakhont-M, Stallion, Bastion-P, Bastion-S,.
The Class is Anti-Ship, Land Attack.
The Effective Range is 600km (Export: 300km).
The Circular Error Probability is 1.5.
The Basing is Ground, Ship,Submarine, Aircraft.
The Transporter-Erector-Launcher is K-340P for ground launch can carry two missiles and each missile can be launched 5 seconds apart.

Here is Dimensions information for the SS-N-26 (Strobile) Russian Short-Range Anti-Ship Cruise Missile:
The Length is 8.6m (8.3m for air to surface version).
The Missile Weight is 3,000.
The Diameter is 0.7.
The Fin Span is 1.7.

Here is Payload information for the SS-N-26 (Strobile) Russian Short-Range Anti-Ship Cruise Missile:
The Type is Single warhead.
The Warhead Type is Semi-armor piercing and HE (Export version: HE).
The Nuclear Warhead Weight is NA.
The Nuclear Yield is NA.
The Conventional Warhead Weight is 200kg HE / 250kg Armor Piercing.
The Conventional Warheads Available is HE sub-munitions, semi-armor piercing.

Here is Propulsion Characteristics information for the SS-N-26 (Strobile) Russian Short-Range Anti-Ship Cruise Missile:
The Engine is Booster / Ramjet.
The Propellant is Solid-fuel Booster; Liquid-Fuel Ramjet Sustainer.
The Speed is 750 m/s (Mach 2.6).
The Flight Altitude is 10,000–14,000 m.
The Minimum Altitude is 10.
The Surface Speed is Mach 2.

Here is Fire Control information for the SS-N-26 (Strobile) Russian Short-Range Anti-Ship Cruise Missile:
The Guidance System is GPS, mid-course inertial guidance, active radar homing, passive radar seeker head.
The Radar homing is All-weather monopulse active-passive with frequency hopping.
The Countermeasures is Active spoofing, dipole clouds.
The Radar Range is 50.
The Seeker is Granit-Elektron seeker.

