This document describes the M1134 (Stryker) American 8x8 Armored Anti-Tank Guided Missile Vehicle.

The M1134 (Stryker) American 8x8 Armored Anti-Tank Guided Missile Vehicle is part of a family of eight-wheeled armored fighting vehicles derived from the Canadian LAV III. Stryker vehicles are produced by General Dynamics Land Systems for the United States Army. It has a 4-wheel drive (8×4) and can be switched to an all-wheel drive (8×8). The vehicle is armed with the TOW missile to reinforce the brigade's infantry and reconnaissance, providing long-range antitank fires against armor beyond tank gun effective range.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: CFE Treaty, United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the M1134 (Stryker) American 8x8 Armored Anti-Tank Guided Missile Vehicle:
The M1126 ICV is Armored personnel carrier version that provides protected transport for 2 crew and a 9 man infantry squad..
The M1127 (RV) is Reconnaissance Vehicle. used by RSTA (Reconnaissance, Surveillance, and Target Acquisition) Squadrons and battalion scouts, moving throughout the battlefield to gather and transmit real-time intelligence/surveillance for situational awareness.
The M1128 (MGS) is Mobile Gun System. Version armed with a 105 mm M68A1 rifled cannon (M68A1E4).
The M1129 (MC) is Mortar Carrier. armed with Soltam 120 mm Mortar supports infantry with screening obscurants, suppressive forces and on-call supporting fires (HE, illumination, IR illumination, smoke, precision-guided, and DPICM cluster bombs)..
The M1130 (CV) is Command Vehicle, provides commanders with communication, data, and control functions to analyze and prepare information for combat missions; can also link to aircraft antenna/power for planning missions..
The M1131 (FSV) is Fire Support Vehicle is organic to maneuver companies and provides surveillance and communications (4 secure combat radio nets), with target acquisition identification tracking, the designation being transmitted automatically to the shooting units..
The M1132 (ESV) is Engineer Squad Vehicle (ESV) provides mobility and limited counter mobility support. Integrated into the ESV are obstacle neutralization and lane marking systems and mine detection devices..
The M1133 (MEV) is Medical Evacuation Vehicle (MEV) is the Battalion Aid Station for brigade units, providing treatment for serious injury and advanced trauma..
The M1135 (NBC RV) is Nuclear, Biological, Chemical Reconnaissance Vehicle automatically integrates contamination information from detectors with input from navigation and meteorological systems and transmits digital NBC warning messages to warn follow-on forces..

Here is System information for the M1134 (Stryker) American 8x8 Armored Anti-Tank Guided Missile Vehicle:
The Alternative Designation is M1134 Stryker ATGM Vehicle /  TOW Carrier.
The Type is 8x8 Wheeled Armored ATGM Vehicle.
The Manufacturer is General Dynamic Land Systems, USA and Canada.
The Family is Stryker.
The Configuration is The Stryker is based on the LAV III light armored vehicle, which in turn was based on the LAV-25 series.

The vehicle comes in several variants with a common engine, transmission, hydraulics, wheels, tires, differentials and transfer case..
The Crew is 4 Personnel.

Here is Dimensions information for the M1134 (Stryker) American 8x8 Armored Anti-Tank Guided Missile Vehicle:
The Length is 6.95.
The Width is 2.72.
The Height is 2.64.
The Weight, Combat is 17,525.
The Ground Pressure is 2.05 kg / square centimeter.

Here is Automotive information for the M1134 (Stryker) American 8x8 Armored Anti-Tank Guided Missile Vehicle:
The Engine Name is Caterpillar C7.
The Engine Type is 7.2-liter Turbo Diesel.
The Engine Power is 350.
The Cruising Range is 500.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 100.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.
The Fording Depth is 1.3.

Here is ATGM Missile System information for the M1134 (Stryker) American 8x8 Armored Anti-Tank Guided Missile Vehicle:
The System Name is Elevated TOW System (ETS-1).
The Type is Telescopic, optically-tracked, wire-guided (TOW) system.
The Design is Pedestal mounted anti-tank missile launcher. Features a pair of horizontally mounted TOW missile launch tubes located on the left of the sensor mast head..
The Guidance (Wire Link) is Fitted with a Semi-Automatic Command-to-Line-of-Sight (SACLOS) system, with an optical tracker and commands are sent via wire link to the missile. It is a two-wire system dispensed from spools at the rear of the missile body..
The Guidance (Wireless) is A wireless launch system is available. When using the wireless datalink option, this wire is replaced by an IR link, with an emitter replacing the spools used to dispense the command wire in flight. The modulated IR beacon at the rear of the missile is tracked by the launch unit's optical sight, which detects course deviations and sends corrective signals to the missile..
The Traverse is 360 deg.
The Elevation is -20 / +29 deg.
The Electric Positioning is Yes, and includes a manual back-up of both the electric traverse and elevation systems is available in the case of power failure..
The Launcher Options is 2 and 4-tube options available.
The Missile Name is BGM-71.
The Missile Diameter is 152 mm.
The Missile Wingspan is 0.46 m.
The Warhead Type is High Explosive, Shaped Charge.
The Warhead Weight is 3.9 - 6.14 kg (Variant Dependent).
The Missiles Types Fired is The system can accommodate all BGM-71 variants..
The Maximum Distance is 3.75 km.
The Combat Load is Launchers loaded (2 or 4) plus 10 missiles stored inside the vehicle..

Here is Heavy Machine Gun (Option 1) information for the M1134 (Stryker) American 8x8 Armored Anti-Tank Guided Missile Vehicle of the Secondary Weapons:
The Name is 1 x M2 Browning .50 Caliber Machine Gun.
The Type is Heavy Machine Gun.
The Caliber is 12.7mm.
The Length is 1,654 mm.
The Barrel Length is 1,143 mm.
The Action is Short, Recoil-Operated.
The Rate of Fire is 450 - 600 rds/min.
The Maximum Effective Firing Range is 1,800 m.
The Feed System is Belt-Fed.

Here is Machine Gun (Option 2) information for the M1134 (Stryker) American 8x8 Armored Anti-Tank Guided Missile Vehicle of the Secondary Weapons:
The Name is M240.
The Type is General-Purpose Machine Gun.
The Caliber is 7.62 mm.
The Length is 1,260 mm.
The Barrel Length is 630 mm.
The Action is Open-Bolt Fired, Gas-Operated, Long-Stroke Piston.
The Rate of Fire is 650-750 rds/min.
The Maximum Effective Range is 1,100 m.
The Feed System is Belt-Fed.

Here is Protection information for the M1134 (Stryker) American 8x8 Armored Anti-Tank Guided Missile Vehicle:
The Hull Armor is Constructed from high-hardness steel which offers a basic level of protection against 14.5mm rounds on the frontal arc, and all-around protection against 7.62mm ball ammunition..
The Applique Armor is Equipped with bolt-on ceramic armor which offers all-around protection against 14.5mm, armor-piercing ammunition, and artillery fragments from 152mm rounds..
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is Yes.
The Mine Clearing is Yes, but limited capability. The Engineer Squad Vehicle (ESV) variant provides mobility and limited counter mobility support. Integrated into the ESV are obstacle neutralization and lane marking systems and mine detection devices..
The Self-Entrenching Blade is INA.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is Yes.

Here is Command & Control information for the M1134 (Stryker) American 8x8 Armored Anti-Tank Guided Missile Vehicle:
The Battle Management System is FBCB2 (Force XXI battle command brigade and below).
The Digital is Yes, Utilizes digital communications system that allows comms between vehicles and higher headquarters through text messaging and a map network..

