This document describes the Aerosky Israeli Unmanned Aerial Vehicle.

Description
The Aerosky is a short-range Israel-made unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) that has served with the United States and Israel. It is used for tactical reconnaissance, surveillance and target acquisition.

The UAV is used as the baseline vehicle for other Aeronoautics aircraft; the Aerosky has a twin tail-boom and a pusher-propeller.

It has two radio frequency command uplinks and a real-time imagery downlink. It carries Tamam's POP 200 EO/IR payload and is controlled by UMAS avionics, including full autonomous navigation, camera-guided navigation and MCS ground enhancement.

Status
The Aerosky was marketed internationally through IAI and obtained by the U.S. Navy and the Israel Defense Forces. The IDF began operating it in March 2002 on "pay-by-the-hour" basis over the Gaza Strip and West Bank.

While the vehicle may still be operational, as suggested in Armada International’s Compendium UAVs: Time to Get Real (2015), there has been little unclassified information regarding the Aerosky since 2008.

As of 2017, there was no open-source information available about its status with the U.S. Navy or the IDF. The manufacturer did not respond to inquiries by the time of this update.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Israel, United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the Aerosky Israeli Unmanned Aerial Vehicle:
The Aerosky 2 is The Aerosky 2 variant was designed with a hybrid battery/piston engine developed by Zanzottera Technologies, Italy. The first flight took place on June 2, 2008.
Its maximum takeoff weight is 176 lb (80 kg), with a flight endurance of 10 hours. It has a small noise signature at a low-altitude while operating with electrical propulsion, according to Flight International (April 22, 2008)..

Here is System information for the Aerosky Israeli Unmanned Aerial Vehicle:
The Alternate Designation is Aerosky.
The Type is UAV.

Here is Dimensions information for the Aerosky Israeli Unmanned Aerial Vehicle:
The Length is 3.05.
The Wingspan is 4.50.
The Takeoff Weight is 70.
The Payload Weight is 40.

Here is Automotive information for the Aerosky Israeli Unmanned Aerial Vehicle:
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Combustion.
The Engine Power is 10.
The Maximum Speed is 185 km/h.
The Maximum Distance is 200 km.
The Maximum Altitude is 3,050 m.

