This document describes the P-700 Granit (SS-N-19 Shipwreck) Russian Medium-Range Anti-Ship Cruise Missile.

The SS-N-19 Shipwreck is a supersonic medium-range, anti-ship cruise missile that evolved from the SS-N-3 Shaddock/SS-N-12 Sandbox missile series. It was deployed in both surface ships and submarines. Submarine missiles are launched while submerged.

The P-700 was designed in the 1970s to replace the P-70 Ametist and P-120 Malakhit, both effective missiles but with too short a range in the face of improving weapons of U.S. Navy carrier battle groups. The missile was partially derived from the P-500 Bazalt.

Built by Chelomei/NPO Mashinostroenia, the bulging 10 m missile has swept-back wings and tail, weighs around 7,000 kilograms, and can be fitted with either a 750 kg HE warhead, an FAE warhead, or a 500 kt thermonuclear warhead. A stubby cylindrical solid-fuel rocket is fitted to the rear for launch; this booster stage is released when the missile enters sustained flight. For many years it was believed that this missile used a turbojet engine during the sustained flight; after the Russian and the Western media gained access to its performance characteristics, it was understood that its propulsion system was a ramjet.

The P-700 has a distinctive annular air intake in the nose. Maximum speed is believed to be between Mach 1.6 and Mach 2.5. The range has been estimated at 400 km,  500 km, and 550–625 km. The guidance system is mixed-mode, with inertial guidance, terminal active radar homing guidance, and also anti-radar homing. Mid-course correction is probable.

The missile, when fired in a swarm (group of 4–8) has a unique guidance mode. One of the weapons climbs to a higher altitude and designates targets while the others attack. The missile responsible for target designation climbs in short pop-ups, so as to be harder to intercept. The missiles are linked by data connections, forming a network. If the designating missile is destroyed the next missile will rise to assume its purpose. Missiles are able to differentiate targets, detect groups and prioritize targets automatically using information gathered during flight and types of ships and battle formations pre-programmed in an onboard computer. They will attack targets in order of priority, highest to lowest: after destroying the first target, any remaining missiles will attack the next prioritized target. Such description received some doubts. The missile has a means of countering the attacking anti-missiles. Also, the onboard computer carries data designed to counter an enemy's electronic warfare and to evade countermeasures.

The P-700 was derived from the P-500 Bazalt missile with a turbojet. The P-700 was in turn developed into the P-800 Oniks, which uses ramjet propulsion, and the BrahMos missile, a joint Indian/Russian modernization of the P-800.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is Variants information for the P-700 Granit (SS-N-19 Shipwreck) Russian Medium-Range Anti-Ship Cruise Missile:
The P-1000 Vulkan is Based on the P-500 Bazalt, the P-1000 Vulkan has been a part of Russia’s effort to modernize its navy’s missile capabilities. The P-1000 Vulkan features titanium armor and parts, instead of the heavier steel components comprising its predecessor. The missile was designed to be faster thanks to reduced weight of its components, as well as a more powerful booster and fuel-efficient turbojet. Active since 1987, it was the last Russian cruise missile to require submarines to surface to launch. The P-1000 Vulkan is launched in a salvo, where one missile acts as a scout to discriminate targets, and can prioritize the largest ship in a fleet. The scout seeker missile flies at an altitude between 5000-7000m to identify targets, while the other three maintain mid-level altitude. All four missiles in the salvo then go silent and lower to about 10-40 meters above sea-level to avoid radar detection. Once they reach the radar horizon, the missiles lock on to their targets and attack. The P-1000 Vulkan missile system is a comprehensive anti-ship weapon with advanced targeting technology capable of flying at mach 2. It is designed to engage highly defended enemy surface units and hit its target, avoiding radio-electronic countermeasures or counter fire. Its targets are discriminated by one of the missiles in the salvo, meaning that a counter-attack on the launch point will not stop the missiles from reaching their target. The extended range of these missiles allows for Russian cruisers to strike from safe distances, outside a defensible perimeter. The P-1000 was designed to counter American navy ships, and Russia claims the missiles can sink an aircraft carrier with one strike. The American analogue to the P-1000 is the UGM-84 Harpoon missile, which is much lighter and does not pack the same firepower. The Russians have succeeded in developing a supersonic cruise missile that the U.S. has struggled to match..

Here is P-700 Granit (SS-N-19 Shipwreck) Russian Long-Range Anti-Ship Cruise Missile information for the P-700 Granit (SS-N-19 Shipwreck) Russian Medium-Range Anti-Ship Cruise Missile of the System:
The Name is P-700 Granit; NATO: SS-N-19 Shipwreck; GRAU: 3M45.
The Type is Supersonic Long-Range Anti-Ship Cruise Missile.
The Manufacturer is Chelomey design bureau, Moscow, Russia.
The Length is 10 m.
The Diameter is 0.85 m.
The Weight is 7,000 kg.
The Warhead is 750 kg conventional high-explosive; or 500 kiloton nuclear.
The Engine is 1 x turbojet sustainer; 2 x solid-fuel boosters.
The Guidance System is inertial w/command update, active radar/IR inertial w/anti-radar homing.
The Maximum Speed is Mach 1+.
The Range is 630 km.
The Blast Yield is 500 kilo tons.
The Launch Platform is Oscar-class submarines
Kirov-class battlecruiser & Kuznetsov-class aircraft carrier.
The Note is Strategic Implications: Designed to defend against United States’ Navy carrier battle grounds, the Granit remains strategically valuable today because of its unique guidance system. When fired in a swarm (group of 4-8 weapons), one of the weapons climbs to a higher altitude and designates targets while the others attack. If the designating missile is destroyed, another missile will rise to take over the same purpose. They attack targets in order of priority, highest to lowest, using information gathered on targets during flight. The missile can also counter attacking anti-missiles and its on-board computer carries data to evade electronic countermeasures, ensuring a successful target hit. Due to the missile’s size, it can only be deployed in small numbers on Oscar-class submarines, Kirov-class battlecruisers, and the Admiral Kuznetsov aircraft carrier. In the future, it is possible that the Granit missiles will be replaced with smaller Oniks and Kalibr cruise missiles in greater numbers..

