This document describes the Misagh-2 Iranian Man-Portable Surface-to-Air Missile System (MANPADS).

HEZBOLLAH and Houthi Proliferation. The Misagh-2 is an Iranian man-portable infrared-guided surface-to-air missile. The Misagh-2 is the successor to the Misagh-1. Like its predecessor, the Misagh-2 is based on Chinese technology.[1] Iran’s defense minister launched the domestic mass production of the Misagh-2 on 5 February 2006. This missile destroys its target within 5 second and has an operation temperature of -40°C to +60°C. Near the target its speed reaches 2.7+ Mach.

It is roughly comparable to the Soviet SA-18 Grouse missiles.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Iran (Islamic Republic of), Non-State Actors, Syria, Yemen.

Here is Variants information for the Misagh-2 Iranian Man-Portable Surface-to-Air Missile System (MANPADS):
The Misagh-1 is The Misagh 1 (also Mithaq-1, etc.) is an Iranian man-portable surface-to-air missile. It was developed by the Shahid Kazemi Industrial Complex in Tehran. It is a variant or reverse-engineered clone of the Chinese QW-1 Vanguard missile system and is comparable to the Soviet SA-16 Gimlet missile. It is used by Iran and has been exported to Hezbollah in Lebanon and to the Popular Mobilization Forces in Iraq and to Syria as well.

The MANPADS was supplemented by the newer Misagh-2 missile system..

Here is Weapon System information for the Misagh-2 Iranian Man-Portable Surface-to-Air Missile System (MANPADS) of the System:
The Name is Misagh-2.
The Type is Man-Portable Surface-to-Air Missile System (MANPADS).
The Manufacturer is Shahid Shah Abhady Industrial Complex.
The Crew is 1.
The Engine is Solid Rocket Motor.
The Guidance System is Passive IR homing device and night vision (operating in the medium IR range).
The Speed is 850.
The Maximum Engagement Altitude is 4,000 m.
The Minimum Engagement Altitude is 10 m.
The Maximum Engagement Range is 6,000.
The Minimum Engagement Range is 500.
The Warhead Type is .
The Storage Life is 8 Years.
The Reaction Time is 5 to 10 sec..
The Targets is Tactical aircraft, helicopter, UAV and cruise missile.

Here is Dimensions information for the Misagh-2 Iranian Man-Portable Surface-to-Air Missile System (MANPADS):
The Length is 1,590 m.
The Diameter is INA.
The Weight is 11.32.
The Warhead Weight is 1.42.

