This document describes the M830r LRF American 8x30 Laser Rangefinder.

This compact, powerful laser rangefinder is universally suited for all military services and tactical units. It’s the perfect combination of premium Steiner binoculars with a powerful class 1/eye safe laser for determining range to targets, plus a SUMR reticle for targeting redundancy in case of battery failure or out-of-range target. No other bino/rangefinder combo will deliver the image and ranging accuracy and reliability of these military veterans.

Perfect for mobile troops who travel light. Lenses and prisms are combined with state-of-the-art coatings to provide bright, crisp images at any range. Ranges can be set to meters or yards.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Australia, United States of America.

Here is System information for the M830r LRF American 8x30 Laser Rangefinder:
The Alternative Designation is M830r LRF.
The Type is 8x30 Laser Rangefinder.
The Crew is 1.
The Magnifaction is 8x.
The Ergonomic Design is shifts the center of gravity into the palms for comfortable, long-time observation and round-the-shoulder shape won't hang up on hatches and doors in urgent situations..
The Floating Prism System is uses flexible silicone lens mount to absorb severe shock, impact and abuse without damage.
The N2 Injection system is seals 14-psi pressurized dry nitrogen into the optic, for fogproof clarity in any condition - from artic cold to desert heat..
The Sports-Auto Focus System is lets you focus each eyepiece to your vision once, then keeps images razor sharp from 20 yards to infinity. No more chasing focus on moving objects..
The NBR Rubber Armoring is is durable, slip-proof and noiseless to ensure secure, chassis-protecting grip in all conditions..
The Makrolon Housing is is durable polycarbonate with NBR Long Life rubber armoring, creating a lightweight, rugged chassis that withstands 11 Gs of impact. Impervious to harsh conditions for generations of trusted use..
The Field of View is 319 feet at 1,000 yards.
The Ranging Distance is 27 to 1,860 Yds..

Here is Dimensions information for the M830r LRF American 8x30 Laser Rangefinder:
The Length is INA.
The Width is 6.7 In.
The Height is 4.5 in.
The Weight, Combat is 26.5 oz.

