This document describes the ASN-301 Chinese Anti-Radiation Radar Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The ASN-301 UAV seems to be a near-copy of the Israel Aerospace Industries (IAI) Harpy system that was purchased by China in the 1990s, according to foreign sources. The ASN-301uav  is a delta-wing aircraft with a pusher propeller that looks virtually identical to the Harpy. It is designed to fly into hostile airspace and loiter until it detects a radar, at which point it homes in on the target and destroys it.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China, Turkey.

Here is Variants information for the ASN-301 Chinese Anti-Radiation Radar Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Cutlass is This variant of the Harpy was evaluated in 1999 with Raytheon for search-and-destroy missions and the ability to attack a wider range of targets. It would have been a sea-launched weapon employing advanced sensors from Raytheon.
The Harop/Harpy 2 is This is a larger, upgraded variant. Designed as a fire-and-forget weapon, the Harop can fly more than 600 mi (1,000 km) to patrol a specific area and attack any hostile radars detected..
The Harpy NG (new generation) is This is an upgraded variant that uses the Harop airframe. It was developed to counter newer air defense radar threats..
The Mini-Harpy is This tactical loitering munition combines the operating characteristics of the Harpy and Harop. It can lock onto radar and other emitting threats via person-in-the-loop electro-optical guidance. Fully autonomous operation is available as an option. It can attack emitting and non-emitting targets..
The Maritime Harop is This is a variant of the Harop optimized for operation from naval vessels, from patrol ships to frigates. It features a maritime-configured launcher and modified communications..
The ASN-301 is This is a Chinese copy of the Harpy. It has a delta wing and pusher propeller configuration that appears virtually identical to the Israeli system. According to the China National Aero-Technology Import & Export Corp. (CATIC), the ASN-301 targets radar frequencies in the 2-16 GHz range and has a radar search range of 16 mi (25 km). The system is said to be able to target up to eight preset radar targets..

Here is System information for the ASN-301 Chinese Anti-Radiation Radar Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is ASN-301.
The Type is Anti-Radiation Radar Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is China; Company: INA.

Here is Dimensions information for the ASN-301 Chinese Anti-Radiation Radar Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is 2.50 m.
The Wingspan is 2.41 m.
The Combat Weight is 135 kg.
The Warhead Weight is 18 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the ASN-301 Chinese Anti-Radiation Radar Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is 1 x UEL AR731.
The Engine Type is Rotary Engine.
The Engine Power is 37 hp (28 kW).
The Maximum Speed is 220 kph.
The Maximum Range is 288 km.
The Ceiling is 4,570 m.
The Endurance is 4 hours.

Here is Fire Control and Avionics information for the ASN-301 Chinese Anti-Radiation Radar Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Communication Maximum Range is 200 km.
The Radar Name is INA.
The Radar Distance is INA.
The Radar Cross-Section is <0.5 sq m.

