This document describes the C14-Class (China Cat Class) Chinese Missile Boat.

The C14 class missile boat is a light missile boat of catamaran designed for use in the Middle East, also known as the China Cat class. The small size of the ship, along with some stealth features provides it with good protection against enemy detection, and it can be armed with a variety of light anti-ship missiles. In addition to the low radar cross-section, the boat is also extremely fast with an aluminum monohull with stepped planning.

The catamaran design also provides better seaworthiness in comparison to the other boats of similar displacement with a conventional hull. The missile boats have been exported to Iran, where since 2000 it has been in service with the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Navy Corps. In Chinese service, it primarily serves as a trial boat, including testing various light anti-ship missiles and other weaponry for catamarans.

During the 1990s, the Chinese Navy started two indigenous fast-attack craft programs, while also considering the acquisition of a Russian-built fast-attack craft. The China Cat-class 20-ton missile boat was developed for use in the Middle East but was also to be built for Chinese naval service.

In 2002 the China State Shipbuilding Corporation (CSSC) demonstrated the "China Cat" high-speed boat prototype, for which Iran was the first customer. This ship uses the catamaran hull, 23 meters long, with a waterline length of 14 meters. Powered by two diesel engines, the maximum speed was approximately 50 knots.

The Cat has a lightweight search radar in the mast crown, a photoelectric surveillance installment in the mast substructure platform. It was not initially clear which model missile would be carried, possibly the short-range C-701 guided missile, which the China National Precision Machinery Import & Export Corporation CMPIEC developed. CMPIEC had already completed the shipborne C-701 testing by 2000. Providing the equipment for the fast assault boat was a way to push this guided missile to exports the market. The boats delivered to Iran were equipped with this missile.

In May 2002 it was reported that China had sold Iran high-speed catamaran missile patrol boats. The first of the new C-14 patrol boats was reportedly observed by US military intelligence in an Iranian port. A Chinese delegation of technicians was in Iran to help the Iranian navy train and equip the new boats. The boats for Iran were designed to carry up to eight C-701 anti-ship cruise missiles and usually had one gun.

Reports appeared at the same time suggesting that the PLAN was interested in the type as well. Assuming the pre-existing force structure of 150 missile-and gun-equipped fast-attack craft, the Chinese Navy's future force could include 30 China Cat Class. As of 2008, there was no indication that the PLAN had or was looking to acquire this type.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China, Iran (Islamic Republic of).

Here is System information for the C14-Class (China Cat Class) Chinese Missile Boat:
The Alternative Designation is China Cat.
The Type is Missile Boat.
The Builder is INA.
The Crew is 10.

Here is Dimensions information for the C14-Class (China Cat Class) Chinese Missile Boat:
The Length is 13.75 m.
The Beam is 4.8 m.
The Draft is 0.7 m.
The Displacement, Standard is INA.
The Displacement, Full Load is 19 tons.

Here is Propulsion System information for the C14-Class (China Cat Class) Chinese Missile Boat:
The Engine Name is 2 x Isotta V1312 T2 MS.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Range is 300 nm.
The Speed is 93 km/h.

Here is System information for the C14-Class (China Cat Class) Chinese Missile Boat of the Main Weapon Station:
The Name is 4 x C-701 Anti-Ship Missile.
The Type is Anti-Ship Missile.
The Length is INA.
The Weight is 117 kg.
The Engine is Rocket.
The Guidance System is Active radar or electro-optical.
The Range is 25 km.
The Maximum Speed is Subsonic.
The Basic Load is 4 x C-701 Anti-Ship Missile.

Here is Protection information for the C14-Class (China Cat Class) Chinese Missile Boat:
The Hull Armor is INA.
The NBC Washdown System is Yes.
The Electronic Warfare is INA.
The Decoys is INA.

