This document describes the RPG-26 Aglen Russian Anti-Tank Rocket Launcher.

The RPG-26 Aglen is a disposable anti-tank rocket launcher developed by the Soviet Union. It fires a single-stage rocket with jack-knife fins, which unfold after launch. The rocket carries a 72.5-millimeter diameter high explosive anti-tank single-shaped charge warhead capable of penetrating 440 millimeters of armor, one meter of reinforced concrete, or one and a half meters of brickwork. It has a maximum effective range of around 250 meters. The similar-sized rocket features a slightly heavier and more powerful HEAT warhead and more powerful rocket engine. The limited extension of the RPG-22 launch tube was found of little use. Therefore the RPG-26 has a rigid non-telescoping launch tube.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, China, Georgia, Jordan, Russian Federation, Syria, Ukraine, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of).

Here is Variants information for the RPG-26 Aglen Russian Anti-Tank Rocket Launcher:
The RShG‐2 is The RShG‐2 GRAU index 6G31 (6Г31) uses the same launcher and rocket motor as the RPG‐26, weighs 3.8 kg complete and has a direct‐fire range of 350 m..

Here is System information for the RPG-26 Aglen Russian Anti-Tank Rocket Launcher:
The Alternative Designation is RPG-26 Aglen.
The Type is Anti-Tank Rocket Launcher.
The Caliber is 72.5 mm.
The Manufacturer is State Research and Production Enterprise, Bazalt.
The Crew is 1.
The Breech is The launcher is a disposable single‐shot weapon, hence no loading/reloading of ammunition is required..
The Method of Operation is The user acquires the target, estimating the distance and lead required, adjusts the point of aim, and depresses the firing button to fire the weapon..
The Rate of Fire is Single shot.
The Muzzle Velocity is 144 m/s.
The Direct Fire Effective Range is 250 m.
The Penetration, Homogeneous Armor is Less than 400 mm.
The Penetration, Concrete is Less than 1,000 mm.
The Penetration, Log and Earth is Less than 2,400 mm.
The Ammunition Types is PG-26 rocket with single HEAT warhead.
The Sights is Mechanical flip up sights.

Here is Dimensions information for the RPG-26 Aglen Russian Anti-Tank Rocket Launcher:
The Length is 770 mm.
The Diamter is 72.5 mm.
The Weight, Launcher is 2.9 kg.
The Weight, Projectile is 1.8 kg.

