This document describes the HOT-3 French Air-to-Ground Anti-Tank Guided Missile.

HOT-3 was brought into service in 1998 and has a tandem shaped-charge HEAT warhead capable of breaching explosive reactive armor as well as improved anti-jamming capabilities. HOT-3 was selected to be the missile armament of the Tiger attack helicopter for Germany at least until the PARS 3 LR becomes available.

The HOT (French: Haut subsonique Optiquement Téléguidé Tiré d'un Tube, or High Subsonic, Optical, Remote-Guided, Tube-Launched) is a second-generation long-range anti-tank missile system developed originally as an effort to meet a joint German-French Army requirement, by the then German firm Bölkow and the French firm Nord, to replace the older SS.11 wire guided missile which was in service with both nations. A few years later, Bölkow and Nord merged into MBB and Aérospatiale respectively, both of which firms later formed Euromissile to design and produce the MILAN, Roland and HOT.

This firm (now MBDA), is a joint corporation of French and German defense firms. The HOT has become one of the most successful missiles of its class, with tens of thousands of missiles produced, used by no fewer than a dozen countries worldwide, and validated in combat in several wars. The missile system is also commonly mounted on light and medium armored vehicles, and attack helicopters.

HOT entered limited production in 1976, with mass production of 800 missiles a month reached in 1978. HOT initially became operational with the German and French armies fitted to specialized armored antitank vehicles. In addition, Euromissile was in the enviable position of having large export orders from Middle East nations at the start of mass production. This was likely due to the situation in the late 1970s where many nations did not want to rely solely on arms purchases from the Soviets combined with the U.S. Congress restrictions on the export sales of the TOW antitank missile.

In Europe, the end of the service life of the HOT missile system is in sight with the French opting to purchase Hellfire II missiles for their Tiger-HAD attack helicopters and the Germans planning to transition to the PARS 3 LR. Austria has decommissioned its HOT-carrying tank destroyers, while Spain is transitioning to Spike missiles to replace their HOT missile inventory. The HOT missile continues to be in widespread use in other areas of the world.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Angola, Austria, Cameroon, China, Cyprus, Ecuador, Syria.

Here is Variants information for the HOT-3 French Air-to-Ground Anti-Tank Guided Missile:
The HOT-1 is fielded in 1978.
The HOT-2 is Fielded in 1985.
The HOT-3 is Fielded in 1998.

Here is Anti-Tank Guided Missile System information for the HOT-3 French Air-to-Ground Anti-Tank Guided Missile:
The Name is HOT-3.
The Type is Air-to-Ground Anti-Tank Missile.
The Length is 1.30 m.
The Diameter, Launcher is 175 mm.
The Diameter, Missile is 150 mm.
The Launcher Weight is 23.5 kg.
The Launcher and Missile Weight is 32.0 kg.
The Warhead Weight is 5.0 kg.
The Warhead is Octol hollow-charge high-explosive anti-tank or multi-purpose penetration of rolled homogeneous armor (RHA). Penetrates up to 47 in (1,200 mm) of armor..
The Engine is 1 x two-stage solid-propellant rocket;
Bugeat booster with a burn of 0.9 sec;
Epictete sustainer, 53 lb (24 kg)
static thrust with a burn of 17.4 sec.
The Maximum Speed is Mach 0.74.
The Maximum Range is 4,300 m.
The Minimum Range is 400 m.
The Flight Time to 2,000 m is 9 sec.
The Flight Time to 3,000 m is 13 sec.
The Flight Time to 4,000 m is 17 sec.
The Guidance System is SACLOS wire-guided.
The Tracking System is optical or IR tracking of target;
IR tracking of missile..
The Basic Load is INA.

