This document describes the RPO PDM-A (Shmel-M) Russian 90mm Rocket Launcher.

The RPO PDM-A (Shmel-M) is a next-generation version of the RPO-A Shmel with dramatically increased range and blast yield. It was developed to meet the requirement of the Russian MoD as a follow-on to the RPO-A Shmel. However, this design has evolved to the point that it is effectively a new weapon rather than an improved version of the RPO-A Shmel. Sometimes this weapon is unofficially referred to as RPO-M, Shmel-2, RPO-2, or Priz. Though its actual manufacturer's designation is RPO PDM-A (Shmel-M). Letters "PDM" in the designation stand for "Improved Range and Lethality". Unlike the previous RPO-A, this weapon is reloadable. The Shmel-M was introduced into the Russian Army in 2003 or 2004. Officially classified as a "flamethrower", the Shmel-M is technically a rocket launcher similar to RPG-series anti-tank weapons, but it is nonetheless suitable for different missions. It is used by dedicated flamethrower squads. It is being proposed for export customers. This weapon saw action in Syria, and possibly some other countries.

   This devastating weapon was designed to engage infantry holed-up in buildings, trenches, field fortifications, and fortified structures. It is also extremely efficient against soft-skin and lightly armored vehicles, as well as other targets, such as parked aircraft, radar dishes, command posts, and so on.

   This shoulder-launched weapon fires 90 mm thermobaric rockets. These are smaller than 93 mm RPO-A rockets. Yet the newer RPO PDM-A weights less at 8.8 kg, opposed to 11 kg. Furthermore, it carries more thermobaric filler (3 kg as opposed to 2.1 kg) and has a more modern thermobaric compound. Also, the new weapon is more ergonomic. Due to its lighter weight, the operator can carry 3 rockets instead of 2.

   The rocket is factory fitted and sealed in a hermetical tube. On impact, the Shmel-M's projectile releases its thermobaric filler in a cloud-like form by a small precursor charge employing a conventional high explosive compound. The thermobaric filler combusts in contact with the air. Detonation generates immense heat and pressure and creates intense incendiary and blast effects over a large area. It is claimed by the manufacturer that the blast of the Shmel-M munition is equivalent in power to 152 mm high explosive artillery shell, or equivalent to 6 kg of TNT. It is substantial for such a small and portable munition. The warhead creates a fireball with a radius of 7 m. Tough the casualty radius could be around 65 meters. This weapon can be used in areas where fire support is difficult or impossible to provide.

   The effects of the blast on personnel are generally the same as those of basic high explosives, but with substantially greater trauma associated with blast overpressure; this includes internal hemorrhaging, ruptured internal organs (especially the lungs), and even broken bones, and these effects are especially pronounced and brutal against personnel inside confined areas, such as buildings, trenches or pillboxes. These make the Shmel-M exceptionally effective for clearing out enemies in closed terrain, without having to risk close-quarters combat with an enemy that is likely waiting in ambush.

   The Shmel-M is also extremely effective against soft-skin vehicles, such as trucks, and lightly armored vehicles. However heavily armored vehicles, such as tanks, are unlikely to sustain any significant damage unless their hatches are open.

   The Shmel-M is a reloadable weapon. Once the rocket is launched, the empty tube is discarded and reloaded by a new tube with the rocket. The previous RPO-A Shmel was a single-use weapon.

   The new weapon has simple flip-up sights with a sighting range of 800 m. The sights consist of a fixed front post and a flip-up rear diopter. The sights are adjustable for a range from 100 m to 800 m, in increments of 100 m. Though optional optical day or night sights can be equipped for improved accuracy. Though it seems that the Russian Army never ordered these optional sights and use this weapon with basic flip-up sights. The Shmel-M has an effective range of 600 m as opposed to 300 m of the older RPO-A. The maximum range also increased to 1 700 m from 1 000 m.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Afghanistan, Belarus, China, Congo, Fiji, Georgia, India, Kazakhstan, North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Sri Lanka, Syria, Ukraine, Viet Nam.

Here is Variants information for the RPO PDM-A (Shmel-M) Russian 90mm Rocket Launcher:
The RPO PDM-A is The RPO-A Shmel (Russian: реактивный пехотный огнемёт-А Шмель (РПО-А Шмель), Rocket-propelled Infantry Flamethrower-A Bumblebee) is a man-portable disposable rocket launcher, although it is classified as a flamethrower by its manufacturer KBP.

The Shmel is designed, produced, and exported by the Russian Federation and previously by the Soviet Union. It entered service with the Soviet Armed Forces at the end of the 1980s as the successor for the RPO Rys..
The MGK Bur is MGK Bur is a 62 mm version of the RPO-M consisting of two major components: the disposable launch tube and reusable fire control unit. Described as "the most compact grenade launcher in the world," the weapon has an overall length of 742 mm and weighs 5 kg (11 lb). Loaded tubes weigh 3.5 kg (7.7 lb) and can fire thermobaric (blast yield similar to 6 kg (13 lb) of TNT, or a 122 mm artillery rocket) or fragmentation warheads. The fire control unit is the same one used on the RPO-M, weighing 1.5 kg (3.3 lb) and enabling ranges of 25–650 m with the baseline day sight; night and thermal systems are also available. The maximum range is 950 meters, with a firing mechanism service life of at least 500 rounds. It can be fired in confined spaces with a volume of at least 30 cubic meters. As of October 2014, it has been accepted into service and serial production has been started..

Here is System information for the RPO PDM-A (Shmel-M) Russian 90mm Rocket Launcher:
The Alternate Designation(s) is RPO PDM-A (Shmel-M).
The Primary Function / Type is Thermobaric Rocket Launcher.
The Caliber is 90.
The Muzzle Velocity is INA.
The Maximum Range is 1,700.
The Rang of Effective Fire is 600.
The Disposable Launching Tube is Yes.
The Fire Control Unit is Yes.
The Electronic Trigger is Yes.

Here is Dimensions information for the RPO PDM-A (Shmel-M) Russian 90mm Rocket Launcher:
The Length is 940.
The Weight is 8.8.

Here is Ammunition information for the RPO PDM-A (Shmel-M) Russian 90mm Rocket Launcher:
The Name is INA.
The Type is 90 mm thermobaric rockets..
The Blast Efffect is equivalent to 5.5 kg (12 lb) of TNT, comparable to a 155 mm artillery shell..
The Weight is 8.8.
The Basic Load is Due to its lighter weight the operator can carry 3 rockets instead of 2..

Here is Sights information for the RPO PDM-A (Shmel-M) Russian 90mm Rocket Launcher:
The Maximum Sighting Range is 800.
The Note is Optical sight and the additional rail for an infrared/night vision sight..

