This document describes the Cheonghaejin Class South Korean Submarine Rescue Ship.

The Cheonghaejin-class ASR (Hangul: 청해진급 잠수함 구조함; Hanja: 淸海鎭級潛水艦救助艦) is a submarine rescue ship class of the Republic of Korea Navy. Only one ship has been built in her class, ROKS Cheonghaejin (ASR 21), in 1995. Its operations include rescuing trapped sailors in submarines, naval operation support for submarines, underwater research and mapping support, and recovery of sunk vessels. It is equipped with a deep submergence rescue vehicle (DSRV) that operates up to 500 metres (1,600 ft), and a rescue chamber that holds up to nine people.

Once all nine Son Wonil-class submarines are delivered to the Republic of Korea Navy, another ASR ship of the same class is planned to be built.

Notable operations
salvaged a North Korean Yugo-class submarine in 1998
salvaged Chamsuri-class patrol boat #357 that was sunk during the naval clash in 2002 with North Korea

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: South Korea (Republic of Korea).

Here is Variants information for the Cheonghaejin Class South Korean Submarine Rescue Ship:
The Note is Only one ship has been built in her class, ROKS Cheonghaejin (ASR 21), in 1995..
The ROKS Cheonghaejin is Pennant Number: ASR 21.

Here is System information for the Cheonghaejin Class South Korean Submarine Rescue Ship:
The Alternative Designation is Cheonghaejin Class.
The Type is Submarine Rescue Ship.
The Builder is South Korea; Shipyard: INA.
The Crew is 140.

Here is Dimensions information for the Cheonghaejin Class South Korean Submarine Rescue Ship:
The Length is 102.8 m.
The Beam is 16.4 m.
The Draft is 4.6 m.
The Displacement, Full Load is 4,300 tons.

Here is Propulsion System information for the Cheonghaejin Class South Korean Submarine Rescue Ship:
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Range is 4,500 nmi (8,300 km; 5,200 mi).
The Maximum Speed is 18 knots (33 km/h; 21 mph).

Here is Gun Weapon System #1 information for the Cheonghaejin Class South Korean Submarine Rescue Ship of the Gun Weapon Systems:
The Name is K6.
The Type is Heavy Machine Gun.
The Caliber is 12.7mm.
The Manufacturer is ST Motiv (Daewoo).
The Quantity is 6 x K6 12.7mm Heavy Machine Gun.
The Role is Fire Support / Suppression / Defense.
The Length is 1,654 mm.
The Barrel Length is 1,143 mm.
The Weight is 38 kg (83.78 lb)
58 kg (127.87 lb) with tripod and T&E (Traverse and Elevation Mechanism).
The Action is Short recoil-operated.
The Rate of Fire is 450–600 rounds/min.
The Muzzle Velocity is 890 m/s.
The Maximum Firing Range is 7,400 m.
The Effective Firing Range is 1,800 m.
The Feed System is Belt-fed.
The Sights is Iron Sights.
The Note is The ST Motiv (Daewoo) "K6" Heavy Machine Gun (HMG) is the standard HMG of South Korean fighting forces. It is a locally-produced copy of the storied American M2 Browning Heavy Machine Gun and, therefore, utilizes the same form and function of its widely-used counterpart..

Here is Gun Weapon Systems #1 Ammunition information for the Cheonghaejin Class South Korean Submarine Rescue Ship of the Gun Weapon Systems:
The Type is Rifle.
The Caliber is 12.7.
The Cartridge is 12.7x99mm.
The Basic Load is INA.

Here is Fire Control Systems information for the Cheonghaejin Class South Korean Submarine Rescue Ship:
The FCS Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is No.
The Battle Management System is No.

Here is Radar Systems information for the Cheonghaejin Class South Korean Submarine Rescue Ship:
The Name is INA.
The Type is Surface Search.
The Frequency is INA.
The Range is INA.

Here is Protection information for the Cheonghaejin Class South Korean Submarine Rescue Ship:
The Active Protection System is No.
The Countermeasures is INA.
The NBC Water Washdown System is INA.

