This document describes the NTC VISMOD GDG130 Chinese Backhoe Loader.

NTC VISMOD. The Jonyang GDG130 is a Chinese high-speed excavator designed to support heavy forces. It is capable of performing a variety of field engineering tasks and support fast moving forces. This multi-purpose machine can dig combat emplacements, trenches, firing positions, fill ditches and clear obstacles. It can also construct point obstacles during counter mobility operations. Once engineering tasks are completed the GDG130 can quickly self-deploy to the next mission site.

Here is System information for the NTC VISMOD GDG130 Chinese Backhoe Loader:
The Alternative Designation is NTC VISMOD GDG 130 Excavator.
The Type is Backhoe Loader.
The Manufacturer is Guizhou Jonyang Kinetics.
The Mission is The GDG 130 is used for a wide range of mobility, counter-mobility, survivability and general engineering missions. It can perform excavation tasks and then quickly self-deploy to the next mission site..
The Crew is 2.
The Attachments is The GDG 130 has a wide array of attachments. These include a range of shovels, wide range of excavator buckets, excavator mounted hydraulic hammer, fork frame, sand bagger, snow plough and other attachments. It is capable of lifting more than 2 t and can dig to a depth of nearly 4 m..
The Note is High-mobility excavation system. It can self-deploy and support fast moving forces on long range operations without the need of a trailer..

Here is Dimensions information for the NTC VISMOD GDG130 Chinese Backhoe Loader:
The Length is 8.55 m.
The Width is 2.49 m.
The Height is 3.49 m.
The Weight is 13 tons.

Here is Automotive information for the NTC VISMOD GDG130 Chinese Backhoe Loader:
The Engine Name is Cummins 6BTA5.9C diesel.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 185 hp.
The Transmission is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 90 km/h.
The Range is 600 km.
The Gradient is 57.
The Side Slope is 30.
The Vertical Step is 0.6 m.
The Trench is 0.6 m.
The Fording with deep Fording Kit is 0.76 m.

Here is Protection information for the NTC VISMOD GDG130 Chinese Backhoe Loader:
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Applique Armor is This military construction vehicle can be fitted with an armored cab..
The Mine Clearing is No.
The NBC Protection is INA.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

