This document describes the Type 70-1 Chinese 62mm Rocket Launcher.

This is a light antitank weapon intended for one-man use against light and medium armor. It is comprised of a two-part launch tube of fiberglass, with a simple pistol grip and sight. The rear of the launcher is removed for loading; the round is placed inside and the rear section replaced around the rocket. The rocket is very light, and the Chinese use the Type 70-1 more as a bunker buster or antipersonnel weapon than an antiarmor weapon.

The Type 70-1 used a two-piece tube design. The front tube is the launch tube (which could be used multiple times). The rear tube was a single use component (which carries a single rocket). The whole weapon system weighed 3.28kg.  Both tubes were connected and locked by a rotary latch and all made of plastic impregnated fiberglass. Close to the screw coupling, there was an aluminum reinforcement in the inner tube. The ammunition tube was encased with a bakelite cover and rubber sealing ring on both sides. A copper terminal jumper was set the inner side of the rear sealing cover forming a rudimentary safety–when the rear cover was still on the tube, it worked as a short circuit.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is Variants information for the Type 70-1 Chinese 62mm Rocket Launcher:
The FHJ-84 is A twin-barrel incendiary rocket launcher, which used the same 62mm caliber and reloading mechanism. Mainly used to fire smoke and incendiary rockets as a supplement to short-range flamethrowers..

Here is System information for the Type 70-1 Chinese 62mm Rocket Launcher:
The Alternate Designation is Type 70.
The Type is Rocket Launcher.
The Caliber is 62.
The Manufacturer is .
The Crew is 1.
The Recoil is Recoilless.
The Maximum Effective Range is 200m.
The Maximum Range is 800m.

Here is Dimensions information for the Type 70-1 Chinese 62mm Rocket Launcher:
The Length is 1.2m.
The Weight is 2.03kg.

Here is Ammunition information for the Type 70-1 Chinese 62mm Rocket Launcher:
The Type is HEAT, Airburst anti-personnel.
The Shell Weight is 1.18 kg.
The Basic Load is 1 per soldier.
The Armor Penetration is 345 mm.

