This document describes the Groza R-934UM2 Russian 6x6 HF/VHF Electronic Warfare (EW) System.

The R-934UM2 Groza is a jamming stations is part of electronic warfare system developed by “KB Radar”.

The R-934UM2 Groza is a similar to the R-934UM and R-378AM, but it enables higher speed of detecting emission sources, higher direction-finding accuracy, digital jamming signal generation, positioning and jamming of radio lines with programmed operational frequency readjustment or simultaneously 16 radio lines operating at fixed frequencies.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is Variants information for the Groza R-934UM2 Russian 6x6 HF/VHF Electronic Warfare (EW) System:
The R-934UM is INA.
The R-378AM is INA.

Here is System information for the Groza R-934UM2 Russian 6x6 HF/VHF Electronic Warfare (EW) System:
The Alternative Designation is Groza R-934UM2.
The Type is HF/VHF Electronic Warfare (EW) System.
The Family is R-934 Family.
The Crew is INA.
The Purpose is detecting emission sources, higher direction-finding accuracy, digital jamming signal generation, positioning and jamming of radio lines with programmed operational frequency readjustment or simultaneously 16 radio lines operating at fixed frequencies.

Here is Dimensions information for the Groza R-934UM2 Russian 6x6 HF/VHF Electronic Warfare (EW) System:
The Length is INA.
The Width is INA.
The Height is INA.
The Weight, Combat is INA.

Here is Automotive information for the Groza R-934UM2 Russian 6x6 HF/VHF Electronic Warfare (EW) System:
The Prime Mover is MT-LB.

Here is System information for the Groza R-934UM2 Russian 6x6 HF/VHF Electronic Warfare (EW) System of the Electronic Warfare System:
The Name is Groza R-934UM2.
The Type is Seach, Detection and Jamming.
The Frequency-Hopping radio Communication Links is Yes.
The Manufacturer is KB Radar.
The Radio Lines is 16x radio lines operating at fixed frequencies.
The VHF/UHF Fixed-Frequency is Yes.
The Detector/Direction-Finder is Yes, with receiving and direction-finding antenna-feeder system.
The Workstations is two automated operator workstations.
The Channel Radio Transmitter is Nine-channel radio transmitter.
The Transmitting Antenna-Feeder Systems is seven transmitting antenna-feeder systems.
The Generators is transporter truck with two power generators and shelter.

