This document describes the Astute Class British Nuclear-Powered Attack Submarine.

The Astute Class British Nuclear-Powered Attack Submarine is the latest class of nuclear-powered fleet submarines (SSNs) in service with the Royal Navy. The boats are being constructed by BAE Systems Submarines at Barrow-in-Furness. Seven boats will be constructed: the first of class, Astute, was launched by Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, in 2007, commissioned in 2010, and declared fully operational in May 2014. The Astute class is the replacement for the Trafalgar-class fleet submarines in Royal Navy service.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

Here is Variants information for the Astute Class British Nuclear-Powered Attack Submarine:
The Astute is Commissioned: 2010
Status: Active.
The Ambush is Commissioned: 2013
Status: Active.
The Artful is Commissioned: 2016
Status: Active.
The Audacious is Commissioned: 2020
Status: Active.
The Anson is Commissioned: 2022
Status: Active.
The Agamemnon is Commissioned: INA
Status: Active.
The Agincourt is Commissioned: INA
Status: Active.

Here is System information for the Astute Class British Nuclear-Powered Attack Submarine:
The Alternative Designation is Astute Class.
The Type is Nuclear-Powered Attack Submarine.
The Builder is BAE Systems Submarines, Barrow-in-Furness.
The Crew is Officers: 18; Enlisted: 98.

Here is Dimensions information for the Astute Class British Nuclear-Powered Attack Submarine:
The Length is 97.0 m.
The Height is INA.
The Beam is 11.27 m.
The Draft is 10.0 m.
The Displacement, Surface is 6,500 tons.
The Displacement, Submerged is 7,400 tons.

Here is Propulsion System information for the Astute Class British Nuclear-Powered Attack Submarine:
The Engine Name is 1 × Rolls-Royce PWR 2 nuclear reactor.
The Engine Type is Nuclear.
The Engine Power is MTU 600 kilowatt diesel generators.
The Maximum Range is Unlimited.
The Maximum Speed, Submerged is 30 kt (55.6 km/h).

Here is Missile Weapon System information for the Astute Class British Nuclear-Powered Attack Submarine:
The Note is Raytheon UGM-109E Tomahawk Block IV TACTOM; inertial, TERCOM and GPS-aided navigation with DSMAC to 1,600+ km at Mach 0.7; warhead (WDU-36/B) 313 kg..

Here is Torpedo System information for the Astute Class British Nuclear-Powered Attack Submarine:
The Note is 6 x 533 mm tubes. BAE Systems Spearfish Mod 0; dual purpose; wire-guided; active/passive homing to 23.2 km at 60 kt; attack speed 70 kt; thermal; warhead 300 kg shaped charge. Being upgraded to Mod 1 by 2024. Total of 38 weapons..

Here is Mine System information for the Astute Class British Nuclear-Powered Attack Submarine:
The Note is In lieu of torpedoes..

Here is Radar System information for the Astute Class British Nuclear-Powered Attack Submarine:
The Navigation Radar is I-Band.

Here is Sonar System information for the Astute Class British Nuclear-Powered Attack Submarine:
The Note is 1 x Thales 2076 integrated suite (bow, flank, fin and towed arrays)..

Here is Protection information for the Astute Class British Nuclear-Powered Attack Submarine:
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Physical Countermeasures is Decoys.
The Electronic Countermeasures is 1 x Thales UAA4; intercept..
The NBC Water Washdown System is Yes.

