This document describes the 9K32 Strela-2 (SA-7 Grail) Russian Man Portable Surface-to-Air Missile (MANPAD).

Hezbollah Proliferation. The 9K32 Strela-2 (Russian: Cтрела, "arrow"; NATO reporting name SA-7 Grail) is a light-weight, shoulder-fired, surface-to-air missile (or MANPAD) system. It is designed to target aircraft at low altitudes, with passive infrared homing guidance, and destroy them with a high explosive warhead.

Broadly comparable in performance with the US Army FIM-43 Redeye, the Strela-2 was the first Soviet man-portable SAM – it entered use in 1968, and full-scale production began in 1970.

The Strela-2 was a staple of the Cold War and was produced in huge numbers for the Soviet Union and their allies, as well as revolutionary movements. Though since replaced with more modern systems, the Strela and its variants remain in service in many countries and have seen widespread use in nearly every regional conflict since 1972.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Afghanistan, Algeria, Bangladesh, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Burundi, Cabo Verde, Cambodia, China, Congo, Croatia, Cuba, Czech Republic, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Georgia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, India, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ivory Coast, Jordan, Laos (People's Democratic Republic), Lebanon, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Non-State Actors, North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Oman, Pakistan, Peru, Poland, Qatar, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Serbia, Slovakia, Sudan, Syria, Tanzania, Uganda, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Here is Variants information for the 9K32 Strela-2 (SA-7 Grail) Russian Man Portable Surface-to-Air Missile (MANPAD):
The Strela-2 is The Strela (Russian for 'arrow') family of man-portable air defence (MANPAD) systems were first developed in the Soviet Union by the Konstruktorskoye Byuro Mashinostroenia (KBM)..
The Strela-2M is The Strela-2M system has also been produced in Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, and Slovakia, under licence. It should be noted that some of the information given from Bulgarian sources differs from that given by Russian sources..
The Strela-3 is The Strela-3 was commissioned by the Soviet military due to the limitations and capabilities of its preceding 9K32/9K32M Strela-2/Strela-2M systems..
The Strela-2M/A is The Strela-2M/A is a Serbian man-portable air defence system (MANPADS) that is a licence-produced copy of the Strela-2M..
The HN-5/ HN-5A is The HN-5 (Hong Nu or Red Cherry) is a product-improved version of the first-generation Russian Strela-2..
The Sakr Eye is An Egyptian reverse engineered and improved model of the Strela-2M..

Here is Dimensions information for the 9K32 Strela-2 (SA-7 Grail) Russian Man Portable Surface-to-Air Missile (MANPAD):
The Length is 1.438 m.
The Diameter is 72 mm.
The Warhead Weight is 1.17 kg HE fragmentation.
The Weight is 9.15 kg.

