This document describes the Credo-1E Russian Unified Moving Target Locating Radar.

The Credo-1E unified moving ground target locating radar is designed to detect moving ground, surface and low-flying targets (man, group of people, vehicles) and to support artillery fire round-the-clock, in any season, and under zero visibility conditions (fog, smoke, and dust).

It can be used as a standalone surveillance asset (with its transceiver and antenna control unit mounted on a tripod) or as part of a variety of artillery reconnaissance and mobile observation posts (on telescopic masts).

The radar has standard interfaces allowing real-time transmission of target coordinates to the user, as well as remote radar control via communication links.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is Variants information for the Credo-1E Russian Unified Moving Target Locating Radar:
The Kredo-1S is Ground recon vehicle with Kredo-1E radar/EO sensor pod on telescoping arm on amphibious BAZ-5921 chassis.
The TBD is Same telescoping arm as the Kredo-1S, but on the BTR-based UNSh/K1Sh1 chassis.
The SNAR-10M is Russian upgrade for the SNAR-10 artillery battlefield surveillance radar vehicle (replaces BIG FRED radar with the Kredo-1E).

Here is System information for the Credo-1E Russian Unified Moving Target Locating Radar:
The Alternative designations is RP-200, IRL-133-3, Kredo-1, Credo-1, Credo-1E, & PSNR-8.
The Description is Ground Surveillance Radar (GSR) can be operated by a crew of 2 or 3; vehicle pintle or mast-mounted or tripodmounted.
The Crew is 2-3 (operator; assistants); more for vehicle.
The Combat weight is 48 kg (up to 97 kg with battery & display).
The Radio is INA.
The Protection is N/A.

Here is Equipment information for the Credo-1E Russian Unified Moving Target Locating Radar:
The Name is Kredo-1E.
The Console is INA.
The Radar is Motor-driven for azimuth adjustment.
The Azimuth coverage (°) is 360 deg; 180 deg in scan sector; 18 in elevation.
The Antenna type is Slotted wave guide.

Here is Performance information for the Credo-1E Russian Unified Moving Target Locating Radar:
The Surveillance range is 40 km (detection); 30 km (tracking); 40 km (tanks); 20-40 km (light vehicles & trucks); 35 km (helicopters); 30 km (large
aircraft); 12 km (ships); 15 km(personnel); 15 km (shell burst-155-mm); 0.2 km (minimum).
The Tracking speed is 3-72 km/h.
The Resolution is 50 m range; 1.8° in azimuth.
The Countermeasure resistance is INA.
The Transceiver specifications is Multi-mode master oscillator & klystron.
The Signal is Coherent pulse Doppler J-band (10.00 -19.00 GHz, US Ku band).
The Power is 250 w (Consumption).
The Mode is Mono-pulse digital processing.
The Width of radiation pattern lobe is INA.
The Accuracy is 10 m in range); 0.12° in azimuth).
The Emplacement time is 5 minutes.
The Polarization is INA.
The Compatibility is Can be used as the base for an integrated digital sensor suite or fused to process data from other sensors.
The Remote Operation is 25-200 m away from dish.
The Target acquisition is Automatically detects, tracks, & identifies targets & reads coordinates.
The TV Monitor is INA.
The Display is Displays acquisitions on digital map display with various display colors.
The Tone Signal is INA.
The Remote user transmission is Transmit data digitally over network via standard interface.

