This document describes the Songar Grenaded Turkish Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The Songar Grenaded Turkish Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) is a grenade launcher system integrated into the first national Armed Drone SONGAR™ in the inventory of the Turkish Armed Forces that is ensured up to four grenades can be fired effectively at a time used in any kind of day/night military operations. The system is able to to broadcast real-time video and operate within a mission radius of up to 5 km.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Turkey.

Here is Variants information for the Songar Grenaded Turkish Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Songar is The Songar is fitted with an EO/IR turret to the underside of the fuselage for navigational and targeting purposes and an additional camera is mounted on the gun. The AV has a pilot camera for surveillance and exploration purposes, a gimbal integrated EO/IR sensor, barrel camera, and laser rangefinder (LRF) module (eye-safe laser), daylight color TV camera (10× zoom, 640×512 HD images)..
The Songar Armed is The Songar Armed Turkish Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) is fitted with a stabilized 5.56 mm assault rifle, for which up to 200 rounds of ammunition may be carried. The AV can also be fitted with a 30-round STANAG magazine. The gun rotation can be adjusted between 0° and 45° elevation axis..
The Songar Togan is The Songar Togan is fitted with TOGAN ammunition of TÜBİTAK SAGE. The AV is equipped with dynamic fire algorithm, and single-ammunition hold-drop mechanism..

Here is System information for the Songar Grenaded Turkish Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is Songar Grenaded.
The Type is Vertical Take-Off and Landing (VTOL) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is Asisguard.
The Autonomy is The AV's mission is fully autonomous with multilayer safety requiring human consent for firing, has return-home on loss of link or low battery, and in-flight mission change option. The AV can either have autonomous mode of control using GPS and GLONASS or remote-control mode..
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Payload Capacity is INA.
The Camera is The SONGAR drone system is installed with two cameras including a pilot camera with 10x zoom and a gun-mounted camera. The cameras are capable of transmitting video and real-time images. The night sensors allow the drone to perform operations during night within a range of 10km. The camera systems are capable of performing real-time video transfer as well as video and data recording for post-mission analysis..
The GPS is The armed drone uses both GPS and GLONASS navigation systems for communications during operations..
The Launching System is Vertical Take-Off and Landing (VTOL).
The Recovery System is Vertical Take-Off and Landing (VTOL).

Here is Dimensions information for the Songar Grenaded Turkish Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is 0.62 m.
The Width is 1.45 m.
The Height is 0.7 m.
The Maximum Takeoff Weight is 45 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Songar Grenaded Turkish Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Propelled by unrated electric motor..
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is INA.
The Cruising Speed is INA.
The Service Ceiling is 300 m.
The Operational Range is 5 km.
The Endurance is 15 min.

Here is System information for the Songar Grenaded Turkish Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) of the Main Weapon System:
The Name is INA.
The Type is Grenade Launcher.
The Caliber is 40 mm.
The Gun Rotation is Gun rotation between +5° and
-90° on elevation axis.
The Gun Stabilization System (GSS) is The AV is additionally fitted with a ‘Grenade Launcher Stabilization System' with capability of rotation between +5° to -90° in the elevation axis..
The Effective Firing Range is The system can fire up to four grenades at a time with effective range of 400–450 m..
The Note is The gun has the capability to perform fully autonomous missions with multi-layered safety, requiring final consent from the operator for firing..

Here is Ammunition information for the Songar Grenaded Turkish Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) of the Main Weapon System:
The Type is Grenade.
The Caliber is 40 mm.
The Cartridge is 40x46mm.
The Basic Load is 6 Grenades.

