This document describes the Searcher Mk I Israeli Reconnaissance Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The Searcher is a multi-mission tactical Unmanned Air System (UAS) used for surveillance, reconnaissance, target acquisition, artillery adjustment, and damage assessment and developed by IAI in the 1990s. It was designed to meet present and future requirements for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) in support of the Israel Air Force as well as export customers. The air vehicle design provides excellent engine and aerodynamics performance and handling qualities while the ground control station was designed to provide compatibility with other UAV systems produced by Israel. So far the Searcher family includes the Mk I, Mk II and Mk III models. The Searcher looks almost identical to the Scout and Pioneer but is in fact scaled up and is well over twice the size of the Scout. The Searcher is powered by a 35 kW (47 hp) piston engine. The new design features updated avionics and sensor systems with greater flight endurance as well as increased redundancy for improved survivability. In addition to Israel, the system had been exported and is currently in use by Russia, India, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Singapore, Thailand, and Turkey

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Azerbaijan, Canada, Cyprus, Ecuador, India, Indonesia, Israel, Russian Federation, Singapore, South Korea (Republic of Korea), Spain, Sri Lanka, Thailand.

Here is Variants information for the Searcher Mk I Israeli Reconnaissance Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Searcher Mk II is The Mk II is the fourth in a line of UAVs that began development as the Scout (the Searcher was the third generation). The Searcher Mk II is slightly larger, measuring 19 ft 2 in (5.85 m) in height and 28 ft 1 in (8.55 m) in diameter; it has higher maximum takeoff weight and payload at 939 lb (426 kg) and 220 lb (100 kg), respectively. The main benefit of these updates is greater flight endurance at higher altitudes..
The Searcher Mk III is The most recent variant, the Mk III was launched in 2010 and has over twice the range of the Mk II with two more hours of endurance and a higher ceiling. It is equipped with a four-stroke silent engine, along with a maximum takeoff weight of 961 lb (436 kg) and higher maximum payload weights of 264 lb (120 kg).
The Searcher Mk III has an aerial data relay capability for beyond line-of-sight operations. Two simultaneous automatic takeoff and landing systems improve safety..
The Forpost is This is the Russian designation for Searcher Mk II UAVs being produced domestically. According to the Urals Civil Aircraft Plant, which builds the systems, the Forpost has a flight endurance of 17.5 hours, maximum takeoff weight of 1,000 lb (454 kg) and a max payload of 130 lb (60 kg). The air vehicle has a top speed of 130 mi (210 kmh) and a ceiling of 11,800 ft (3,600 m)..

Here is System information for the Searcher Mk I Israeli Reconnaissance Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternative Designation is Searcher, Searcher Mk I, Searcher I.
The Type of UAV is Unmanned Reconnaissance Drone.
The Manufacturer is IAI.
The In Service is 1992-Present.
The Primary Function is Long Endurance Reconnaissance Drone.
The Day/Night Capable is Yes.
The All Weather Capable is Yes.
The Ground Crew is 4 (external pilot, internal pilot, observer and commander).
The Endurance is 24.
The Launch System is Runway (Fully Automatic).
The Recovery System is Runway (Fully Automatic).
The Number of Hard Points is INA.
The Manned-Unmanned Teaming (MUM-T) Capable is No.
The Automatic Landing and Takeoff Capability is Yes, Automatic Takeoff and Landing (ATOL) systems.
The Electro-Optical and Infrared Sensors (EO/IR) is Yes.
The Real-Time Imagery is Yes.
The Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) is Available and would replace the Electro-Optical and Infrared Sensors (EO/IR).
The SAR/GMTI Capable is INA.
The SIG/INT Capable is Yes.
The EO/IR Capable is Yes.
The Fuselage is Composite.
The Gyro-Stabilized TV Camera is Yes.
The Note #1 is The Searcher Mk I is built from composite materials to reduce radar detection.

Here is Dimensions information for the Searcher Mk I Israeli Reconnaissance Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is 5.85.
The Width (Wing Span) is 8.54.
The Height is 1.25.
The Weight, Empty is 350.
The Weight, MTOE is 500.

Here is Automotive information for the Searcher Mk I Israeli Reconnaissance Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is Limbach L550 Engine.
The Engine Type is 1 X Limbach L550 Engine.
The Engine Power is 47.
The Endurance is 24.
The Propeller is driving 2-blade pusher propeller.
The Fuel is 130.
The Maximum Speed is 200.
The Dash Speed is 185.
The Cruise Speed is 111.
The Ceiling is 6,100.
The Maximum Range is 300.
The Payload is 65.
The Endurance is 16.

Here is Communications information for the Searcher Mk I Israeli Reconnaissance Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Line of Sight Radio (UAV & Ground Crew) is Direct Line-of-Sight (LOS) data link.
The Beyond Line of Sight Radio (UAV & Ground Crew) is UAV airborne data relay for beyond LOS missions & Ground-based data relay for beyond LOS missions.
The Note is In the event of communications via datalink are lost the air vehicle will return automatically to its base..

Here is Protection information for the Searcher Mk I Israeli Reconnaissance Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Stealth Properties is No.
The Heat Signature Reduction is INA.
The Add on Armor is INA.
The EW is Yes.
The EW Counter Measures / CCM is No.
The Counter Measures (Chaffs/Flares) is No.

