This document describes the Manawanui Class New Zealand Dive Support, Hydrographic and Deep Sea Salvage Vessel.

HMNZS Manawanui is a diving support, hydrographic, and deep-sea salvage vessel. The ship provides our Navy with the ability to conduct a range of specialist diving, salvage, and hydrography tasks around New Zealand and across the South West Pacific.

HMNZS Manawanui delivers the ability for diving and hydrographic specialists to embark and conduct specialized operations such as surveying of lakes, coastlines, and harbors, underwater explosive disposal, mine countermeasures, and underwater search and salvage. Possible missions for the ship include surveying harbors and approaches after a natural disaster prior to larger support ships landing support equipment and personnel, providing support to the ongoing mission to eradicate explosive remnants of war in the South Pacific, and salvage operations to find and recover submerged objects.

Contributing towards New Zealand’s maritime presence in the region, HMNZS Manawanui also supports government agencies including the Police, Customs, Ministry for Primary Industries, and Ministry of Civil Defence and Emergency Management.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: New Zealand.

Here is Variants information for the Manawanui Class New Zealand Dive Support, Hydrographic and Deep Sea Salvage Vessel:
The HMNZS Manawanui is HMNZS Manawanui is a multi-role offshore support vessel currently commissioned in the Royal New Zealand Navy. The ship replaces two decommissioned vessels, the hydrographic survey ship HMNZS Resolution and the diving support vessel HMNZS Manawanui..

Here is System information for the Manawanui Class New Zealand Dive Support, Hydrographic and Deep Sea Salvage Vessel:
The Alternative Designation is Manawanui Class; HMNZS Manawanui.
The Type is Dive Support, Hydrographic and Deep Sea Salvage Vessel.
The Builder is Myklebust Verft AS.
The Operations is The ship is capable of performing a range of operations such as disaster relief, underwater search and recovery, mine detection and explosives disposal, as well as limited mine countermeasures. Manawanui can be used to assist the naval forces by carrying out surveys of the coastline and harbours. It will also assist government agencies such as the New Zealand Police, Customs Service, Ministry for Primary Industries and Ministry of Civil Defence and Emergency Management..
The Crew is 66 (39 crew + 27 mission specialists).
The Maximum Cargo Capacity is 800 tons.
The Crane Capacity is 100 tons.

Here is Dimensions information for the Manawanui Class New Zealand Dive Support, Hydrographic and Deep Sea Salvage Vessel:
The Length is 84.7 m.
The Beam is 18.0 m.
The Draft is 6.8 m.
The Deck Area is 700 m2.
The Moon Pool, Length is 7.5 m.
The Moon Pool, Width is 3.5 m.
The Weight, Full Load is 5,700 metric tons.
The Maximum Cargo Capacity is 450 metric tons.

Here is Dive Systems information for the Manawanui Class New Zealand Dive Support, Hydrographic and Deep Sea Salvage Vessel:
The Positioning System is Navigational requirements of HMNZS Manawanui are served by the on-board K-POS Dynamic Positioning 2 (DP2) System supplied by Kongsberg Gruppen..
The Dive Systems is Dive Systems: IHC Hytech 3 x person wet bell and Surface Supply Breathing Apparatus through an enclosed moon pool. Recompression chamber..
The Hydrographic Systems is Hydrographic Systems: 1 x Kongsberg EM712 Multi Beam Echo Sounder and 1 x EA 440 Single Beam Echo Sounder..
The Remotely Operated Vehicle is 1 x Seaeye Cougar-XT Remotely Operated Vehicle..

Here is Propulsion System information for the Manawanui Class New Zealand Dive Support, Hydrographic and Deep Sea Salvage Vessel:
The Engine Name is 2 x Mitsubishi S6B3 MPKT and 2 x MAN1750D.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 10,300 bhp total.
The Bow Thrusters is 2 x aft azimuth thrusters; 2,200 kW each; 2 x forward tunnel thrusters; 1,150 kW each; 1 x forward retractable thruster; 1,350 kW.
The Maximum Range is 7,800 nm (14,450 km) at 13 knots (24 km/h).
The Maximum Speed is 13 knots (24 km/h).
The Endurance is 30 days.

Here is Gun Weapon System #1 information for the Manawanui Class New Zealand Dive Support, Hydrographic and Deep Sea Salvage Vessel of the Gun Weapon Systems:
The Name is 2 x M2 Browning .50-caliber Machine Guns.
The Type is Heavy Machine Gun.
The Caliber is 7.62 mm.
The Length is 1,654 mm.
The Barrel Length is 1,143 mm.
The Weight is 38 kg.
The Action is Short recoil-operated.
The Rate of Fire is 450–600 rounds/min.
The Muzzle Velocity is 890 m/s.
The Maximum Firing Range is 7,400 m.
The Effective Firing Range is 1,800 m.
The Feed System is Belt-fed (M2 or M9 links).

Here is Gun Weapon Systems #1 Ammunition information for the Manawanui Class New Zealand Dive Support, Hydrographic and Deep Sea Salvage Vessel of the Gun Weapon Systems:
The Type is Rifle.
The Caliber is 7.62 mm.
The Cartridge is 12.7×99mm NATO.
The Basic Load is INA.

Here is Aviation Facilities information for the Manawanui Class New Zealand Dive Support, Hydrographic and Deep Sea Salvage Vessel:
The Facilities is Open deck, no hanger..
The Aircraft is 1 x SH-2 Seasprite or NH90 (flight deck only).

Here is Boats and Landing Craft information for the Manawanui Class New Zealand Dive Support, Hydrographic and Deep Sea Salvage Vessel:
The Rigid-Hulled Inflatable Boat (RHIB) is Carries 2 x Rigid-Hulled Inflatable Boats (RHIBs)..

Here is Sonar Systems information for the Manawanui Class New Zealand Dive Support, Hydrographic and Deep Sea Salvage Vessel:
The Multi-Beam Echo Sounder is 1 x Kongsberg EM712 multibeam echo sounder..
The Single-Beam Echo Sounder is 1 x EA 440 single-beam echo sounder..

Here is Protection information for the Manawanui Class New Zealand Dive Support, Hydrographic and Deep Sea Salvage Vessel:
The Hull Armor is INA. The bridge features floor-to-ceiling windows for improved visibility and situational awareness. Conning stations are located on the forward, port and starboard sides of the bridge to allow the ship to be controlled from those sides while docking..
The Countermeasures is INA.
The NBC Water Washdown System is Yes.

