This document describes the BrahMos Indian/Russian Short-Range Cruise Missile.

The BrahMos (designated PJ-10) is a short-range ramjet supersonic cruise missile that can be launched from a submarine, ship, aircraft, or land. It is the fastest supersonic cruise missile in the world. It is a joint venture between the Russian Federation and India, who together have formed BrahMos Aerospace.
It is based on the Russian P-800 Oniks cruise missile and other similar sea-skimming Russian cruise missile technology.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: India, Russian Federation.

Here is Variants information for the BrahMos Indian/Russian Short-Range Cruise Missile:
The Surface Ship Launched is Ship-launched, anti-ship variant
Ship-launched, land-attack variant
BrahMos Block II land-attack variant
BrahMos Block III land-variant
Anti-aircraft carrier variant (tested in March 2012) – the missile gained the capability to attack aircraft carriers using the supersonic vertical dive variant of the missile that could travel up to 290 km.
The Submarine Launched is Submarine-launched, anti-ship variant
Submarine-launched, land-attack variant.
The Air Launched is Air-launched, anti-ship variant
Air-launched, land-attack variant.
The Ground Launched is Land-launched, land-attack variant
Land-launched, anti-ship variant.

Here is Dimensions information for the BrahMos Indian/Russian Short-Range Cruise Missile:
The Length is 8.4 m.
The Diameter is 0.67.
The Fin Span is 1.7.
The Missile Weight is 3,000 kg; air launched version weighs 2,500 kg.

Here is Payload information for the BrahMos Indian/Russian Short-Range Cruise Missile:
The Warhead Type is Single.
The Warhead Options is Conventional and nuclear.
The Nuclear Yield is INA.
The Conventional Warhead Weight is 200 kg; air launched: 300 kg.
The Conventional Warheads Available is Semi-armor piercing.
The Multiple Independently targetable Reentry Vehicle (MIRV) Capable is INA.
The Chemical Capable is INA.

Here is Propulsion Characteristics information for the BrahMos Indian/Russian Short-Range Cruise Missile:
The Engine is 2-Stage.
The Propellant is First stage: solid fuel rocket booster
Second stage: liquid-fueled ramjet.
The Speed is Mach 2.8.
The Flight Ceiling is 15.
The Attack Altitude is 3.

Here is Fire Control information for the BrahMos Indian/Russian Short-Range Cruise Missile:
The Guidance System is Mid-course guidance by INS
Terminal guidance by active radar homing
GPS/GLONASS/GAGAN satellite guidance.

