This document describes the 9K115-2 Metis-M (AT-13 Saxhorn-2) Russian Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM).

Hezbollah Proliferation. The 9K115-2 Metis-M is a Russian anti-tank missile system. "9K115-2" is the GRAU designation of the missile system. Its NATO reporting name is AT-13 Saxhorn-2. The system is designed to augment the combat power of company-level motorized units.

The Metis-M system adds to the usual positive qualities of a man-portable anti-tank-guided missile with significant improvements in range, accuracy, and lethality. Owing to the small dimensions and lightweight of its components, this man-portable system can be carried by its crew in compact packs over any distance and over a wide variety of terrain types, including stream crossing. The three-man crew carries personal weapons and an ammunition load of five missiles. One crew member carries a pack with a missile-loaded launcher, which considerably reduces the time of fire preparation and allows the crew to engage targets whilst moving. In the event of the sudden appearance of a target, the operator can fire from the shoulder with the launcher rested against a local object. The two other crew members each carry a pack with two missiles.

The Metis-M ATGM system has semi-automatic missile guidance, with commands transmitted over a wire link. The guidance system is constructed so that the most sophisticated and costly components, such as a gyroscopic coordinator, electronic units, and an onboard battery, are excluded from the missile.


FEATURES
* changes from the traveling to the firing position—and vice versa—in 15 – 20 seconds;
* firing rate of 3 - 4 rounds per minute;
* fired from organized and deployed sites in the prone and standing foxhole positions, as well as from combat 
   vehicles;
* can be shipped by any type of transport and can be air-dropped.
* The Metis-M system comprises:

combat assets;
* maintenance facilities;
* training aids.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Algeria, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Croatia, Egypt, Georgia, Hungary, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Malaysia, Morocco, Non-State Actors, Russian Federation, South Korea (Republic of Korea), Syria, Turkmenistan, Ukraine.

Here is Variants information for the 9K115-2 Metis-M (AT-13 Saxhorn-2) Russian Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The Metis-MI is New Russian variant of AT-13,weighing 1 kg less, with 2000 m range..
The Metis-M/AT-13 is System with 9P151firing post adapted for and including the Metis-M missile, IOC 1992.  The Mulat-115 thermal sight is likely to be used with the missile. 

This represents the Tier 3 OPFOR dismount ATGM system.  The missile can be used on the AT-7 launcher, but cannot then defeat EO jammers..

Here is Dimensions information for the 9K115-2 Metis-M (AT-13 Saxhorn-2) Russian Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The Length is 980.
The Diameter is 130.
The Weight, ATGM is 13.8.
The Weight, Launcher is 10.2.
The Wingspan is INA.
The Warhead Weight is INA.

Here is Sights information for the 9K115-2 Metis-M (AT-13 Saxhorn-2) Russian Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM):
The Name is 1 x 1PBN86-VI thermal sight.
The Type is Thermal Sight.

