This document describes the Xiaomi CyberDog Chinese Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).

The Xiaomi CyberDog Chinese Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) is a bio-inspired quadruped robot that is powered by NVIDIA’s Jetson Xavier NX AI Supercomputer for Embedded and Edge Systems which includes 384 CUDA Cores, 48 Tensor Cores, a 6 Carmel ARM CPU, and 2 deep learning acceleration engines. Xiaomi CyberDog is paired with 128GB of near-industrial grade SSD. With its in-house developed high-performance servo motor, Xiaomi CyberDog has a wide range of movements including running, jumping, and turning left or right. and leaning forward. The CyberDog can also do a backflip, roll around, and stand on its hind legs.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: China.

Here is System information for the Xiaomi CyberDog Chinese Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Alternate Designation is Xiaomi CyberDog.
The Type is Robotic Dog Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).
The Manufacturer is Xiaomi.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Operating System is Ubuntu 18.04 + ROS 2.
The Supported Movement Modes is Standing movement, lie down slowly, jogging, trotting, jumping.
The Additional Abilities is Rolling, shaking hands, dancing, turning in a circle, back flip.
The Maximum Cargo Capacity is 3 kg.
The Features is Indoor mapping, autonomous positioning (refers to indoor positioning based on SLAM technology), navigation planning, automatic obstacle avoidance, face recognition, human tracking, high definition image transmission, video recording..
The Cameras is Depth camera: Intel Realsense D450;
AI Interactive Camera: 13MP;
Binocular wide-angle camera: 2 MP.
The Voice System is Voice interaction: XiaoAI voice technology; 
Microphone Array: 6 Microphone Ring Array; 
Voice commands for action: get up, go down, step back, turn around, dance, shake hands.
The Processor is NVIDIA Carmel ARM v8.2 6-core 64-bit processor.
The GPU is 84-core NVIDIA Volta GPU with 48 Tensor Cores.
The RAM is 8 GB 128-bit LPDDR4x.
The eMMC is 16GB eMMC 5.1.
The SSD is 128 GB.
The Sensors is Intel Realsense D450 Depth Camera / AI Interactive Camera / Binocular Wide Angle Camera / TOF Sensor / Ambient Light Sensor / Ultrasonic Sensor / Inertial Measurement Unit / GPS Module / Geomagnetic Sensor / Optical Flow Meter / 6MIC Ring Matrix / Touch Sensor.
The Wireless Configuration is Wi-Fi: IEEE 802.11 a / b / n / g / ac;
Bluetooth: Bluetooth 4.2.
The Interfaces is HDMI x 1, Type-C × 3 (Fast Charge, Boot, Peripheral Expansion Port).
The Operational Termperature is 0 ℃ - 40 ℃.

Here is Dimensions information for the Xiaomi CyberDog Chinese Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Length Standing is 77.1 cm.
The Width Standing is 35.5 cm.
The Height Standing is 40 cm.
The Length Crouched is 80.7 cm.
The Width Crouched is 40.6 cm.
The Height Crouched is 20.6 cm.
The Weight is 14 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Xiaomi CyberDog Chinese Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Li-ion battery.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 11.52 km/h.
The Charging Time is 160 min.
The Battery Protection is equalize charge / overvoltage protection / undervoltage protection / overcurrent protection / short circuit protection / overheat protection.
The Endurance is 1 hour.

