This document describes the Protector Class (Otago Class) New Zealand Offshore Patrol Vessel (OPV).

The Protector-class offshore patrol vessel (also known as the Otago class) is a ship class of two offshore patrol vessels (OPVs) operated by the Royal New Zealand Navy (RNZN) since 2010. The ships are named HMNZS Otago and HMNZS Wellington. Three similar vessels built to the same Vard 7 85M design were built by Colombo Dockyard for the Sri Lanka Coast Guard.

Conceived as part of Project Protector, the Ministry of Defence project consisted of acquiring one multi-role vessel, two offshore, and four inshore patrol vessels. The Project Protector vessels will be operated by the RNZN to conduct tasks for and with the New Zealand Customs Service, the Department of Conservation, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Ministry of Fisheries, Maritime New Zealand, and New Zealand Police. The Government and Navy policy were the OPVs are intended to carry out resource protection functions in the EEZ, South Pacific, and the Southern Ocean, to free the two Anzac-class frigates for other needs. However, with the capability to carry and sustain a missile-armed RNZN helicopter they do have limited higher contingency capability.

The vessels were designed by Vard Marine (known as STX Canada Marine and formerly Kvaerner Masa Marine) and are based on earlier OPV designs in service with the Irish Naval Service (since 1999) and the Mauritian Coast Guard (since 1996). However, the adopted design is considerably upgraded, in that the Irish Naval Service no longer included helicopter facilities in its designs after the failure of helicopter operations from the OPV LÉ Eithne in the rough seas off the Irish west coast. Otago, however, includes helicopter facilities similar to the arrangements of the earlier Irish OPV, LÉ Eithne, which were based on the British Leander, which modification to operate larger Lynx/Seasprite helicopters is based on the design of the last RNZN Leander, HMNZS Canterbury. The vessel is compliant with all of the operational requirements for patrol and response, cargo carriage and handling, sea keeping for sea boat and helicopter operations, and has a high level of comfort for crew and client-agency officials.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: New Zealand.

Here is Variants information for the Protector Class (Otago Class) New Zealand Offshore Patrol Vessel (OPV):
The HMNZS Otago (P 148) is Commissioned: 2010
Status: Active.
The HMNZS Wellington (P 55) is Commissioned: 2010
Status: Active.

Here is System information for the Protector Class (Otago Class) New Zealand Offshore Patrol Vessel (OPV):
The Alternative Designation is Protector Class; Otago Class.
The Type is Offshore Patrol Vessel (OPV).
The Builder is Tenix, Williamstown.
The Crew is 35 x vessel crew + 10 x flight personnel + 4 x personnel from Government agencies.
The Cargo Capcity is 30 x passengers, 3 × 20 ft sea container, 1 × 16 tonne, 9 meter crane aft.
The OPV Missions is The Protector Class OPVs will conduct operations throughout a 200-mile Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) of New Zealand, the southern ocean and the Pacific Ocean. Primary missions include patrolling, maritime counter-terrorism, surveillance and reconnaissance, maritime search and rescue (SAR) and pollution control. These OPVs can also be deployed in humanitarian assistance, catastrophe relief, peacekeeping operations and sea training for the Navy..
The Sea State is OPV has the ability to perform patrol missions in sea state 6, and can survive in sea state 9..

Here is Dimensions information for the Protector Class (Otago Class) New Zealand Offshore Patrol Vessel (OPV):
The Length is 85 m.
The Beam is 14 m.
The Draft is 3.6 m.
The Displacement, Standard is INA.
The Displacement, Full Load is 1,900 tons.

Here is Propulsion System information for the Protector Class (Otago Class) New Zealand Offshore Patrol Vessel (OPV):
The Engine Name is 2 x MAN B&W 12RK280.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is 2 x 5400 kW / 7240 hp.
The Bow Thruster is 1 x 450 kW bow thruster.
The Maximum Range is 6,000 NM (11,000 km).
The Maximum Speed is 22 knots (41 km/h).
The Endurance is 21 days.

Here is Gun Weapon System #1 information for the Protector Class (Otago Class) New Zealand Offshore Patrol Vessel (OPV) of the Gun Weapon Systems:
The Name is 1 × Remote Controlled Rafael Typhoon 25 mm stabilised naval gun, on forecastle.
The Type is Naval Gun.
The Caliber is 25 mm.
The Manufacturer is Rafael Advanced Defense Systems LTD..
The Length is INA.
The Weight is Less than 1,000 kg fully loaded.
The Elevation is -20 deg up to 70 deg.
The Traverse is ± 160 deg.
The Surveillance System is CCD/FLIR/LRF.
The Sights is Typhoon can use sights attached to the weapon mount or it can receive inputs from an independent Electro-Optical Detector (EOD) or Fire Control Radar (FCR). Using its own sight the Typhoon system can provide firing solutions entirely without outside assistance, allowing it to function fully independently..

Here is Gun Weapon Systems #1 Ammunition information for the Protector Class (Otago Class) New Zealand Offshore Patrol Vessel (OPV) of the Gun Weapon Systems:
The Type is Rifle.
The Caliber is 25 mm.
The Cartridge is INA.
The Basic Load is Between 160 and 210 rounds are carried on the mounting, depending on the caliber..

Here is Gun Weapon System #2 information for the Protector Class (Otago Class) New Zealand Offshore Patrol Vessel (OPV) of the Gun Weapon Systems:
The Name is 2 × M2HB QCB .50 calibre Browning machine guns on pivots either side of bridge.
The Type is Heavy Machine Gun.
The Caliber is 12.7 mm.
The Length is 1,654 mm.
The Barrel Length is 1,143 mm.
The Weight is 38 kg.
The Action is Short recoil-operated.
The Rate of Fire is 450–600 rounds/min.
The Muzzle Velocity is 890 m/s.
The Maximum Firing Range is 7,400 m.
The Effective Firing Range is 1,800 m.
The Feed System is Belt-fed.
The Sights is Iron Sights.

Here is Gun Weapon Systems #2 Ammunition information for the Protector Class (Otago Class) New Zealand Offshore Patrol Vessel (OPV) of the Gun Weapon Systems:
The Type is Rifle.
The Caliber is 12.7 mm.
The Cartridge is 12.7×99mm NATO.
The Basic Load is INA.

Here is Aviation Facilities information for the Protector Class (Otago Class) New Zealand Offshore Patrol Vessel (OPV):
The Hanger is Hangar for Seasprite..
The Helicopters is 1 x Kaman SH-2G Super Seasprite helicopter. Can be armed with a combination of homing torpedoes, depth charges, Maverick Air to Surface missiles, AGM119 Penguin 2 ASM M60 Machine Gun..

Here is Boats and Landing Craft information for the Protector Class (Otago Class) New Zealand Offshore Patrol Vessel (OPV):
The Rigid-Hulled Inflatable Boat (RHIB) is The OPV can carry 2 x  Rigid-Hulled Inflatable Boats (RHIBs), 2 x  special forces RHIBs and 6 x 45-man inflatable boats. These boats can be deployed and recovered in sea state 4..

Here is Protection information for the Protector Class (Otago Class) New Zealand Offshore Patrol Vessel (OPV):
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Countermeasures is INA.
The NBC Water Washdown System is Yes.

