This document describes the Polyphem German Short-Range Cruise Missile.

The Polyphem was a proposed light-weight fibre-optic wire-guided surface-to-surface missile with a range of 60 km.
It used a solid propellant booster rocket to launch the missile out of its canister to an initial height so that the wings and control surfaces can unfold and a more fuel economic turbojet cruise engine would kick in to propel the missile.

The missile could be programmed to follow a preset course, using GPS or inertial guidance. An infrared seeker could be used to automatically pick a target and for the terminal guidance phase, but it was also possible to transfer the thermal images back to the launching platform via a 200 MBit/s data link provided by an optical fibre, and manually select the target.

The fibre-optic guided Polyphem missile was intended for two kinds of mission: isolated strikes from light land vehicles against long-range targets or from small ships or helicopters against land-based targets.

The Polyphem program was started in 1994 by Germany, France and Italy. Italy later left the project.

A naval version, called Polyphem-S, was initially selected for the Braunschweig class corvette as anti-ship and land-attack missile, but that has been cancelled.

The Polyphem program as a whole was cancelled in 2003.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: France, Germany.

Here is Variants information for the Polyphem German Short-Range Cruise Missile:
The Polyphem-H is Helicopter launched variant.
The Polyphem-S is Ship launched variant.
The Triton is Submarine launched variant.

Here is System information for the Polyphem German Short-Range Cruise Missile:
The Alternate Designation is Trilateral fibre-optic guided missile system (TRIFOM), Polyphem-S, Polyphem-H, Triton.
The Basing is Submarine, Ship, Truck.
The Launch Platform(s) is Braunschweig class corvette, Mercedes TEL.
The Effective Range is 60.
The Circular Error Probability is 1.

Here is Dimensions information for the Polyphem German Short-Range Cruise Missile:
The Length is 2.7.
The Missile Weight is 130.
The Diameter is INA.
The Fin Span is INA.

Here is Payload information for the Polyphem German Short-Range Cruise Missile:
The Warhead Type is Single.
The Warhead Options is Conventional.
The Nuclear Yield is NA.
The Conventional Warhead Weight is 20.
The Conventional Warheads Available is Hollow charge with a hull of splinters.
The Multiple Independently targetable Reentry Vehicle (MIRV) Capable is NA.

Here is Propulsion Characteristics information for the Polyphem German Short-Range Cruise Missile:
The Engine is Booster for launch and turbo-jet for flight.
The Propellant is Solid.
The Speed is 120—180 m/s (around 430—650 km/h).
The Flight Ceiling is 600.
The Minimum Altitude is 20.
The Attack Altitude is INA.

Here is Fire Control information for the Polyphem German Short-Range Cruise Missile:
The Guidance System is Primary guidance came from fiber optics to send and receive messages to and from the launch site.  
The missile was also capable of automatic flight using advanced image processing algorithms, electro-optical converters and radio links. The firing station has a global positioning system (GPS) Navstar navigation reference unit, a north-seeking device and a command, control, communications and information (C3I) system interface..

