This document describes the JRTC VISMOD: Technical Fighting Vehicle.

A "Technical" is a type of improvised fighting vehicle, typically a civilian or military non-combat vehicle, modified to provide an offensive capability similar to a military gun truck.  It is usually an open-back civilian pickup truck or all terrain vehicle mounting a machine gun, anti-aircraft gun, recoilless rifle, or other support weapon.

Due to the simplicity in which a technical can be built as well a the high maneuverability that they provide, it is likely that this weapon platform will be heavily utilized by insurgent and special purpose forces.  The armor protection of a technical fighting vehicle is non-existent unless added after market.  Therefore, most weapon systems can destroy a technical and all can disable them.

Here is Dimensions and Automotive Characteristics information for the JRTC VISMOD: Technical Fighting Vehicle of the System:
The Note is Varies by make and model.

Here is Weapon Option 1 information for the JRTC VISMOD: Technical Fighting Vehicle of the Armament:
The Cailber/Length is 14.5.
The Name is KPV-14.5.
The Type is Heavy machine-gun.
The Ammunition is 500 x 14.5mm.
The Rate of Fire is 600 rounds / minute.

Here is Weapon Option 2 information for the JRTC VISMOD: Technical Fighting Vehicle of the Armament:
The Name is M2 Heavy Barreled Machine Gun.
The Type is 50 Caliber Machine Gun.
The Ammunition is 500 x .50mm.

Here is Weapon Option 3 information for the JRTC VISMOD: Technical Fighting Vehicle of the Armament:
The Cailber/Length is 30.
The Name is AGS-17.
The Type is Automatic grenade launcher.

Here is Weapon Option 4 information for the JRTC VISMOD: Technical Fighting Vehicle of the Armament:
The Caliber is 82.
The Name is 2B14 Podnos.
The Type is Mortar.

Here is Weapon Option 5 information for the JRTC VISMOD: Technical Fighting Vehicle of the Armament:
The Name is Konkurs or Kornet.
The Type is Anti-tank missiles.

Here is Weapon Option 6 information for the JRTC VISMOD: Technical Fighting Vehicle of the Armament:
The Name is SPG-9 (Spear).
The Type is 73mm Recoilless Gun.

Here is Weapon Option 7 information for the JRTC VISMOD: Technical Fighting Vehicle of the Armament:
The Name is DShK.
The Type is 12.7mm Heavy Machine Gun / AA Gun.

