This document describes the Shmel-1 (Bumblebee) Russian Close-Range Reconnaissance Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The Shmel (Bumblebee) has been the Russian army's primary close-range reconnaissance unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV).

The Shmel has high mounted straight wings with turned-down tips and ailerons for roll control. A broad-chord ring enshrouds the pusher propeller and the rotable elevator and rudder. According to its manufacturer, the Shmel-1's annular channel ensures:

*"an increase in the effective thrust of the propeller;
*"an increase in the efficiency of the control surfaces by placing them in the propeller wash and retain efficiency in all flight conditions;
*"an improvement in the acoustic characteristics of the propeller; and
*"ground maintenance safety while the engine is running."
The Shmel's transport/launcher/control vehicle is a tracked, fully amphibious, NBC (nuclear, biological and chemical) protected vehicle adapted from the BMD armored personnel carrier.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: North Korea (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), Russian Federation, Syria.

Here is Variants information for the Shmel-1 (Bumblebee) Russian Close-Range Reconnaissance Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Shmel-2 is The Shmel-2 is a civil version of the aircraft, with inverted-V tail on short booms in place of annular duct. Its planned missions: pipeline inspection, highway patrol, agricultural and fishery inspection, oceanological and environmental applications..

Here is System information for the Shmel-1 (Bumblebee) Russian Close-Range Reconnaissance Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is Shmel-1; YAK-061; NATO: Bumblebee.
The Type is Close-Range Reconnaissance Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is A.S. Yakovlev OKB, Moscow, Russia.

Here is Dimensions information for the Shmel-1 (Bumblebee) Russian Close-Range Reconnaissance Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is 2.78 m.
The Height is 1.10 m.
The Wingspan is 3.25 m.
The Maximum Takeoff Weight is 130 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Shmel-1 (Bumblebee) Russian Close-Range Reconnaissance Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is 1 x Samara/Trud (Kuznetsov) P-032 2-cyl.
The Engine Type is 2-Stroke Gasoline Engine.
The Engine Power is 32 hp.
The Maximum Speed is 180 km/h.
The Cruising Speed is 140 km/h.
The Maximum Ceiling is 3,000 m.
The Minimum Ceiling is 100 m.
The Range is 50 km.
The Endurance is 2 hours.

Here is Armament information for the Shmel-1 (Bumblebee) Russian Close-Range Reconnaissance Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Note is No Armament.

Here is Protection information for the Shmel-1 (Bumblebee) Russian Close-Range Reconnaissance Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Stealth Properties is None.
The Heat Signature Reduction is No.
The Add on Armor is INA.
The EW Counter Measures is No.
The Chaffs/Flares is No.

