This document describes the Muna-Class (Project 1823 Class) Ukrainian Hydrographic Survey Vessel.

Project 1823 (type "Uhlomyer", Muna class by NATO classification), is a special purpose ship of the Naval Forces of Ukraine. It was originally named GS-13 under the Hydrographic Service of the Soviet Navy, but after the dissolution of the Soviet Union this vessel managed to be released from the Russian military.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation, Ukraine.

Here is Variants information for the Muna-Class (Project 1823 Class) Ukrainian Hydrographic Survey Vessel:
The Project 1824B is Reconnaissance ships, but without radio and electronic intelligence resources. Special weapons on them include means of hidden release and receive of intelligence divers and delivery of underwater vehicles..

Here is System information for the Muna-Class (Project 1823 Class) Ukrainian Hydrographic Survey Vessel:
The Alternative Designation is Muna-Class (Project 1823 Class) Ukrainian Hydrographic Survey Vessel.
The Type is Hydrographic Research Vessel / Medium Intelligence Ship.
The Builder is "Vympel" (Rybinsk, Yaroslavl Oblast, RSFSR) and "Baltics" (Klaipėda, Lithuanian SSR).
The Crew is 30.
The Research Analysts is INA.

Here is Dimensions information for the Muna-Class (Project 1823 Class) Ukrainian Hydrographic Survey Vessel:
The Length is 54.2 m.
The Beam is 9.3 m.
The Draft is 9.95 m.
The Displacement, Standard is 912 tons.
The Displacement, Full Load is INA.

Here is Propulsion System information for the Muna-Class (Project 1823 Class) Ukrainian Hydrographic Survey Vessel:
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Diesel.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Propellers is INA.
The Bow Thrusters is INA.
The Maximum Range is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 11 knots.
The Endurance is INA.

Here is Electronics information for the Muna-Class (Project 1823 Class) Ukrainian Hydrographic Survey Vessel:
The Navigation Radar is Yes.
The Radio Direction Finder is INA.
The Survey Equipment is MG-13 underwater communication station, MG-26 Khosta underwater communication station.

Here is Weapon System information for the Muna-Class (Project 1823 Class) Ukrainian Hydrographic Survey Vessel:
The  is .
The  is .
The Note is There are no confirmed weapon systems associated with the Muna-Class vessel..

Here is Protection information for the Muna-Class (Project 1823 Class) Ukrainian Hydrographic Survey Vessel:
The Hull Armor is INA.
The Countermeasures is INA.
The NBC Water Washdown System is Yes.

