This document describes the Heron (Machatz-1) Israeli Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The Heron (Machatz-1) Israeli Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) is a medium-altitude long-endurance unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) developed by the Malat (UAV) division of Israel Aerospace Industries.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Azerbaijan, Brazil, Canada, Ecuador, Germany, Greece, India, Israel, Malta, Morocco, Singapore, South Korea (Republic of Korea), Turkey, United States of America, Viet Nam.

Here is Variants information for the Heron (Machatz-1) Israeli Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Heron TP (Eitan) Israeli Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) is The Heron TP is a multi-role, advanced, long-range Medium Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) for strategic missions. It is equipped with automatic taxi-takeoff and landing systems (ATOL), satellite communication (SATCOM) for extended range, fully redundant avionics, and more. The Heron TP was designed as a multi-mission platform to address local and international customers' needs and to perform a variety of strategic missions, including intelligence gathering, surveillance, target acquisition, and reconnaissance, using various payloads, with a high level of reliability..

Here is System information for the Heron (Machatz-1) Israeli Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is Heron; Machatz-1.
The Type is Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is Israel Aerospace Industries.
The Autonomy is Semi-Autonomous.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Payload Capacity is 250 kg.
The Reconnaissance Equipment is The Heron capable of carrying and operating up to six sensors simultaneously, with the range being listed as including EO sensors (combined TV/IR and TV/IR/laser designation equipment's), search and rescue (SAR) and maritime patrol radars, communications relay equipment, SIGINT sensors, and customer-specified custom payloads..
The Launching System is The Heron is launched by means of automatic wheeled take-offs..
The Recovery System is The Heron is recovered by means of automatic wheeled landings..

Here is Dimensions information for the Heron (Machatz-1) Israeli Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is 8.5 m.
The Wingspan is 16.6 m.
The Height is INA.
The Maximum Takeoff Weight is 1,150 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Heron (Machatz-1) Israeli Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is 1 × Rotax 914.
The Engine Type is 4-cylinder air and water cooled horizontally-opposed piston engine.
The Engine Power is 115 hp.
The Maximum Speed is 207 km/h.
The Service Ceiling is 10,000 m.
The Rate of Climb is 2.5 m/s.
The Maximum Distance is INA.
The Endurance is 52 hours.

