This document describes the Orlan-50 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The Orlan-50 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) are scaled-up derivatives of the Orlan-10 already in Russian service.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Russian Federation.

Here is Variants information for the Orlan-50 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Orlan-10 is Orlan-10 is a medium-range, multi-purpose unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) developed by Russian firm Special Technology Center LLC in St Petersburg. The UAV is in service with the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation. It is intended for a variety of missions including aerial reconnaissance, observation, monitoring, search and rescue, combat training, jamming, detection of radio signals, and target tracking. The drone is usually used in a group of two or three, where the first one is used for reconnaissance in a height of 1-1.5 km, the second one for electronic warfare and the third one as a transponder that transmits intelligence information to the control center..
The Orlan-30 is The Orlan-30 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) are scaled-up derivatives of the Orlan-10 already in Russian service..

Here is System information for the Orlan-50 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is Orlan-50.
The Type is Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is The Orlan UAV family is designed and manufactured by the Special Technological Center in St Petersburg..
The Autonomy is Semi-Autonomous.
The Crew is Unmanned.
The Payload Capacity is 15 kg.
The Mission Payloads is The Orlan-50 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) can carry three or four mission payloads at any one time. Payload options include an 80 megapixel photo-reconnaissance camera; a gyro-stabilized electro-optical infrared (EO/IR) video system; signals intelligence devices for monitoring radio traffic or direction finding; radiation monitoring sensors; and others..
The Datalink is The Orlan-50 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) is equipped with a secure datalink with a 120 km range and a 2-16 Mb/s transfer rate..
The Launching System is Catapult.
The Recovery System is Parachute.
The Note is A single The Orlan-50 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV)  includes a ground control station and up to four UAVs, with one UAV able to use its datalink to act as a relay for control of the other three..

Here is Dimensions information for the Orlan-50 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is 2.43 m.
The Wingspan is 3.8 m.
The Height is INA.
The Maximum Takeoff Weight is 50 kg.

Here is Automotive information for the Orlan-50 Russian Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is INA.
The Engine Type is Twin Engine.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 180 km/h.
The Cruising Speed is 90 km/h.
The Service Ceiling is 5,000 m.
The Operating Radius is 500 km.
The Endurance is 8 hours.

