This document describes the Bandayevsky RB-12 Russian 12-Gauge Shotgun.

The Bandayevsky RB-12 (Cyrillic: Ружьё Бандаевского РБ-12 – Ruzh'yo Bandayevskogo RB-12) is a shotgun of Russian origin. The weapon is a slide-action (pumped forward) shotgun and comes with a folding stock.The gun is designed by Aleksandr Bandayevsky, chief designer and president of JSC Uralmashproekt.

The RB-12 was an attempt by Aleksandr Bandayevsky, CEO of JSC Uralmashproekt, to create a tactical shotgun for home defense, police or security use, and requested production for the weapon to begin. Unfortunately for him, the RB-12 was very unsuccessful in its attempt to do so, and its failure is mainly attributed to complicated internals, poor reliability, being very problematic to use and just being a very unorthodox concept for a firearm in general; this caused it to disappear from the market shortly after its introduction.

Because of its commercial failure, only 50 RB-12s were actually produced before Bandavyevsky's subordinates convinced him to halt all production of the weapon. Today, the RB-12 is a prized collector's item due to its rarity, but holds little practical value mainly due to the reasons that caused its failure in the market.

The RB-12 employs a stationary breech and a movable barrel, and unlike most shotguns, the action is cycled forward, then rearward to chamber a new round. While this action does help to reduce the length of the weapon, it makes operating the RB-12 all the more problematic. The RB-12 uses proprietary 6-round detachable box magazines. The weapon's receiver is made of skeletonized steel, and fitted with removable wooden side panels.

The RB-12 features no manual safety; the only safety present on the weapon is the grip safety. The weapon has an unusual feature where the trigger is locked up when the stock is folded; this is because mandated Russian firearm laws prohibit civilian use of firearms deemed "too short in length". Another unusual feature with the weapon is that the stock is unfolded automatically when the weapon is charged. The weapon has a carrying handle quite similar to the ones seen on AR-15-pattern rifles, with the rear of the carrying handle having iron sights.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Central Asia, Eastern Europe.

Here is System information for the Bandayevsky RB-12 Russian 12-Gauge Shotgun:
The Alternate Designation(s) is Bandayevsky RB-12.
The Primary Function / Type is Shotgun.
The Manufacturer is INA.
The Action is Slide action, moving barrel with fixed bolt.
The Barrels is 1.
The Feed System is 6 round detachable box magazine.
The Sights is Iron.

Here is Dimensions information for the Bandayevsky RB-12 Russian 12-Gauge Shotgun:
The Length, Total is 825.
The Length, Stock Folded is 610.
The Barrel Length is 525.
The Weight is 3.

Here is Ammunition information for the Bandayevsky RB-12 Russian 12-Gauge Shotgun:
The Cartridge is 12-Gauge.
The Basic Load is 6 round detachable box magazine.

