This document describes the Sammad-2 (UAV-X) Yemeni Reconnaissance and Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).

The Sammad-2 is 2.8 meters long and has a wingspan of 4.5 meters. It has distinctive V-shaped tail fins and is powered by a rear-mounted German or Chinese pusher engine. It is also known as the "UAV-X", the provisional designation given to it in a UN report. The Samad-2 can carry either a reconnaissance or an explosive payload. The reconnaissance version carries a camera, a Nikon D810 digital camera in one model. The attack variant has a warhead of 18 kg of explosives mixed with ball bearings.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Iran (Islamic Republic of), Yemen.

Here is Variants information for the Sammad-2 (UAV-X) Yemeni Reconnaissance and Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Sammad-1 is The Sammad-1 is the base variant. It has a wingspan of approximately 3.5 meters.[7] It has a range of 500 km and is for surveillance..
The Sammad-2 (UAV-X) is The Sammad-2 is 2.8 meters long and has a wingspan of 4.5 meters. It has distinctive V-shaped tail fins and is powered by a rear-mounted German or Chinese pusher-engine. It is also known as the "UAV-X", the provisional designation given to it in a UN report. The Samad-2 can carry either a reconnaissance or an explosive payload. The reconnaissance version carries a camera, a Nikon D810 digital camera in one model. The attack variant has a warhead of 18 kg of explosives mixed with ball bearings..
The Sammad-3 is The Samad-3 is an "extended-range" version with a conformal fuel tank mounted on the top of the drone. The dimensions are estimated at a 4.5m wingspans, like the Samad-2. According to the Houthis, it has a range of 1,500 km and carries an explosive payload. Qualitatively, the Samad-3 is described as "inexpensive, small, slow and clumsy" and unlikely to strike targets with good accuracy..

Here is System information for the Sammad-2 (UAV-X) Yemeni Reconnaissance and Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Alternate Designation is Sammad-2; UAV-X.
The Type is Reconnaissance and Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
The Manufacturer is INA.
The Payload Capacity is The Samad-2 can carry either a reconnaissance or an explosive payload..
The Reconnaissance Payload is The reconnaissance version carries a camera, a Nikon D810 digital camera in one model..
The Attack Payload is The attack variant has a warhead of 18 kg of explosives mixed with ball bearings..

Here is Dimensions information for the Sammad-2 (UAV-X) Yemeni Reconnaissance and Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Length is 2.80 m.
The Wingspan is 4.5 m.
The Height is INA.
The Weight is INA.

Here is Automotive information for the Sammad-2 (UAV-X) Yemeni Reconnaissance and Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Engine Name is 1 × rear-mounted German or Chinese pusher-engine..
The Engine Type is INA.
The Engine Power is INA.
The Maximum Speed is 200–250 km/h.
The Maximum Distance is 1,500 km.
The Ferry Range is 1,200–1,500 km.
The Maximum Altitude is INA.
The Endurance is 6 hours.

Here is Armament information for the Sammad-2 (UAV-X) Yemeni Reconnaissance and Loitering Munition Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV):
The Note is The attack variant has a warhead of 18 kg of explosives mixed with ball bearings..

