This document describes the M1131 (Stryker FSV) American Armored Fire Support Vehicle.

The M1131 Stryker FSV (Fire Support Vehicle) is part of a family of eight-wheeled armored fighting vehicles derived from the Canadian LAV III. The Fire Support Vehicle (FSV) of the Stryker series provides automated enhanced surveillance, target acquisition, target identification, target tracking, target designation, position location and communications functionality. The FSV is organic to maneuver companies and provides surveillance and communications (4 secure combat radio nets), with target acquisition identification tracking, the designation being transmitted automatically to the shooting units.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: CFE Treaty, United States of America.

Here is Variants information for the M1131 (Stryker FSV) American Armored Fire Support Vehicle:
The M1126 ICV is Armored personnel carrier version that provides protected transport for 2 crew and a 9 man infantry squad..
The M1127 (RV) is Reconnaissance Vehicle. used by RSTA (Reconnaissance, Surveillance, and Target Acquisition) Squadrons and battalion scouts, moving throughout the battlefield to gather and transmit real-time intelligence/surveillance for situational awareness.
The M1128 (MGS) is Mobile Gun System. Version armed with a 105 mm M68A1 rifled cannon (M68A1E4).
The M1129 (MC) is Mortar Carrier. armed with Soltam 120 mm Mortar supports infantry with screening obscurants, suppressive forces and on-call supporting fires (HE, illumination, IR illumination, smoke, precision-guided, and DPICM cluster bombs)..
The M1132 (ESV) is Engineer Squad Vehicle (ESV) provides mobility and limited counter mobility support. Integrated into the ESV are obstacle neutralization and lane marking systems and mine detection devices..
The M1133 (MEV) is Medical Evacuation Vehicle (MEV) is the Battalion Aid Station for brigade units, providing treatment for serious injury and advanced trauma..
The M1134 (ATGM) is Anti-Tank Guided Missile Vehicle is armed with the TOW missile to reinforce the brigade's infantry and reconnaissance, providing long-range antitank fires against armor beyond tank gun effective range..
The M1135 (NBC RV) is Nuclear, Biological, Chemical Reconnaissance Vehicle automatically integrates contamination information from detectors with input from navigation and meteorological systems and transmits digital NBC warning messages to warn follow-on forces..

Here is System information for the M1131 (Stryker FSV) American Armored Fire Support Vehicle:
The Alternative Designation is M1131 Stryker Fire Support Vehicle (FSV).
The Type is 8x8 Wheeled Armored Fire Support Vehicle.
The Manufacturer is General Dynamic Land Systems, USA and Canada.
The Family is Stryker.
The Configuration is The Stryker is based on the LAV III light armored vehicle, which in turn was based on the LAV-25 series.

The vehicle comes in several variants with a common engine, transmission, hydraulics, wheels, tires, differentials and transfer case..
The Crew is 2 Personnel.
The Passenger Capacity is 9 Personnel.

Here is Dimensions information for the M1131 (Stryker FSV) American Armored Fire Support Vehicle:
The Length is 6.95.
The Width is 2.72.
The Height is 2.64.
The Weight, Combat is 17,525.
The Ground Pressure is 2.05 kg / square centimeter.

Here is Automotive information for the M1131 (Stryker FSV) American Armored Fire Support Vehicle:
The Engine Name is Caterpillar C7.
The Engine Type is 7.2-liter Turbo Diesel.
The Engine Power is 350.
The Cruising Range is 500.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 100.
The Speed, Average Cross is INA.
The Speed Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.
The Fording Depth is 1.3.

Here is Fire Support information for the M1131 (Stryker FSV) American Armored Fire Support Vehicle:
The Fires Radio Network is Yes, equipped with four (4) fire support radio nets and includes an intercom that enables users to contact fire support assets..
The Vehicle Intercom System (VIS) is Yes, the vehicular intercom system (VIS) enables fire support communication on each of the four combat radio nets from each crew positions is required in the FSV. The VIS permits each of the operating stations to selectively monitor the intercommunications system and any combination of four radio receivers, while selectively transmitting on any of the radio transmitters in addition to the intercommunications system..
The Optics is Yes, roof-mounted optical suite is used to assess the effect of fire missions on target and to adjust fire..
The Fire Control Data link is Yes, features network data link to an Initial Fire Support Automation System (IFSAS)..
The Joint Fires Capability is Yes, communicates with available joint fire support assets ready and/or on station to service targets..

Here is Command & Control information for the M1131 (Stryker FSV) American Armored Fire Support Vehicle:
The Battle Management System is FBCB2 (Force XXI battle command brigade and below).
The Digital is Yes, Utilizes digital communications system that allows comms between vehicles and higher headquarters through text messaging and a map network..
The Mission is Provides commanders with communication, data, and control functions to analyze and prepare information for combat missions; can also link to aircraft antenna for air to ground integration..

Here is Heavy Machine Gun (Option 1) information for the M1131 (Stryker FSV) American Armored Fire Support Vehicle of the Weapon Systems:
The Name is M2 Browning .50 Caliber Machine Gun.
The Type is Heavy Machine Gun.
The Caliber is 12.7mm.
The Quantity is 1.
The Length is 1,654 mm.
The Barrel Length is 1,143 mm.
The Action is Short, Recoil-Operated.
The Rate of Fire is 450 - 600 rds/min.
The Maximum Effective Firing Range is 1,800 m.
The Feed System is Belt-Fed.

Here is Grenade Launcher (Option 2) information for the M1131 (Stryker FSV) American Armored Fire Support Vehicle of the Weapon Systems:
The Name is MK-19 Grenade Launcher.
The Type is Automatic Grenade Launcher.
The Caliber is 40 mm.
The Length is 1,090 mm.
The Barrel Length is 413 mm.
The Action is Blowback (empty without accessories).
The Rate of Fire is 360–390 rds/min (cyclic) 40 rds/min (sustained) 60 rds/min (rapid).
The Maximum Effective Firing Range is 1,500 m.
The Feed System is 32 or 48 (count) Grenade Belt.

Here is Machine Gun (Option 3) information for the M1131 (Stryker FSV) American Armored Fire Support Vehicle of the Weapon Systems:
The Name is M240.
The Type is General-Purpose Machine Gun.
The Caliber is 7.62 mm.
The Length is 1,260 mm.
The Barrel Length is 630 mm.
The Action is Open-Bolt Fired, Gas-Operated, Long-Stroke Piston.
The Rate of Fire is 650-750 rds/min.
The Maximum Effective Range is 1,100 m.
The Feed System is Belt-Fed.

Here is Fire Control information for the M1131 (Stryker FSV) American Armored Fire Support Vehicle:
The Name is M151 Kongsberg Protector.
The Type is Remote Weapons Station.
The Mounting System is Universal Soft-Mount Cradle.
The Sights / Aiming System is Detached Line of Sight (DLOS) enables the gunner to keep sights on target independent of ballistic solution for the weapon option in use..
The Turret Stabilization is Fully stabilized and provides steady observation and engagement capability..
The Thermals is Yes.
The Camera is Color Daylight System.
The Laser Range Finder is Yes.

Here is Protection information for the M1131 (Stryker FSV) American Armored Fire Support Vehicle:
The Hull Armor is Constructed from high-hardness steel which offers a basic level of protection against 14.5mm rounds on the frontal arc, and all-around protection against 7.62mm ball ammunition..
The Applique Armor is Equipped with bolt-on ceramic armor which offers all-around protection against 14.5mm, armor-piercing ammunition, and artillery fragments from 152mm rounds..
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is Yes.
The Mine Clearing is Yes, but limited capability. The Engineer Squad Vehicle (ESV) variant provides mobility and limited counter mobility support. Integrated into the ESV are obstacle neutralization and lane marking systems and mine detection devices..
The Self-Entrenching Blade is INA.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is Yes.

