This document describes the Ra'ad (Thunder- 1) Iranian Medium-Range Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System.

Raad or Ra'd (Persian: رعد‎, meaning "thunder") is an Iranian aerial defence system deployed in September 2012. The system is designed to enhance Iran's capabilities in terms of defense, and as a partner to Bavar 373 air defense system. According to Fars news agency the Raad is designed to confront fighter jets, cruise missiles, smart bombs, helicopters and drones. The system is also designed specially for US fighters. The system is equipped with "Taer" (Bird) missiles, which can trace and hit targets in ranges up to 50 km and in altitudes from 25 to 27 km (75,000 feet), Ra'd is ranked as a mid-range radar system and air defense system.

The Raad 1 mounts a turret appearing to be identical to the Russian 2S1 122mm self propelled howitzer, but on the chassis of the Iranian Boragh APC, a variant of the Chinese WZ-501/503 series, themselves copies of the Russian BMP-1. The artillery piece used was either the standard Russian type 122mm howitzer, manufactured under the designation HM51L by the Armaments Industries Group of the Iranian Defense Industries Organization, or the improved HM51 howitzer.

As of 2008 Iran was the sole operator of the system, maintaining a mixed force of upgraded 2S1 and Raad 1 self-propelled howitzers.

Iran first announced the "Thunder"-1 type 122mm self-propelled howitzer developed by the Hadid Artillery Factory in early 2002. The chassis was under the responsibility of the Shahid Kladuz Industrial Complex (SKDIC) of the DIO. The combat system is partly handled by the Hadid Artillery Factory. The shape of the "Thunder"-1 self-propelled howitzer is very similar to that of the Soviet 2S1 "Dianzhu" 122mm self-propelled howitzer. Therefore, Iranian military personnel would refer to the 2S1 self-propelled howitzer when developing the gun.

The "Thunder"-1 self-propelled howitzer adopts the layout commonly used by similar self-propelled artillery, that is, the cockpit and power cabin are arranged at the front of the vehicle body, the rear is a combat cabin, and the turret is mounted above the combat cabin. The gun features an all-welded steel structure with a maximum armor thickness of 17 mm to withstand light weapons and shell fragments. The chassis of the "Thunder"-1 self-propelled howitzer was improved from the chassis of the Iranian "Bolager" infantry fighting vehicle. The main change was that the body at the rear of the cockpit was raised.

The "Thunder"-1 self-propelled howitzer is 6.65 meters long and 3.25 meters wide. It has 4 crew members and 17.5 tons of combat weight. The power unit is the air-cooled BF-8L513 four-stroke eight-cylinder turbocharged diesel engine from Germany Deutz. The maximum power is 231.5 kW. Manual transmission, 2 forward gears and 1 reverse gear, the suspension device is torsion bar type, there are 6 hanging rubber load wheels on each side of the vehicle, the driving wheel is in front, the induction wheel is behind, and there is a supporting pulley in the middle. The maximum speed is 65 km / h, the maximum off-road speed is 4 5 km / h, and the maximum stroke is 400 km.

The chassis of the "Thunder"-1 self-propelled howitzer was improved from the chassis of the Iranian "BORAQ" infantry fighting vehicle. The Soviet 2S1 "Dianzhu" 122mm self-propelled howitzer and the Iranian "Thunder"-1 self-propelled howitzer are very similar in appearance, the biggest difference is the use of different chassis.

The "Thunder"-1 self-propelled howitzer is equipped with a fully enclosed 3-person turret. The top of the turret is equipped with optical equipment for direct shooting and inter-shot shooting. The turret is equipped with a HM-51 type with a diameter of 122 mm and a diameter of 122 mm. Artillery (imitation of the Soviet 2A31 122mm howitzer), when the marching artillery is placed in the front of the truck body and locked by the fastener. The high-low range of the HM-51 gun is -3° to +72°, the muzzle velocity is 721 m/s, and the range is 15.2 km when the ZBK-13 propellant is used to launch the 122 mm high-explosive grenade.

The life of the gun can reach 3000 rounds. The gun is equipped with an automatic loading machine with a maximum firing rate of 4-5 rounds. The gun can also be loaded when shooting at a large elevation angle. The shell carries 35 rounds. The types of shells include grenades, flares, and smoke bombs. The auxiliary weapon of the Thunder "-1 type self-propelled howitzer is a 12.7 mm high-altitude machine gun.

This equipment has proliferated into the following countries: Iran (Islamic Republic of).

Here is Variants information for the Ra'ad (Thunder- 1) Iranian Medium-Range Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System:
The 3rd Khordad is The 3rd Khordad is the most advanced version of the Ra'ad air defense system. It has the greatest reported range of any of the variants..
The Tabas is The Tabas is a transporter-erector-launcher radar variant of the Ra'ad fitted with a radar similar to the "Fire Dome" radar fitted to the Buk-M1. It can reportedly only engage a single target at a time, while providing guidance to two missiles..
The Alam al Hoda is The Alam al Hoda is a transporter-erector-launcher in the Ra'ad family. The TEL can carry three missiles..

Here is System information for the Ra'ad (Thunder- 1) Iranian Medium-Range Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System:
The Alternative Designation is Ra'ad, Thunder, Ra'd, Raad.
The Type is Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System.
The Family is Ra'ad.
The Manufacturer is IRGC aerospace force.
The In Service is 2012-Present.
The Crew is INA.
The Chassis is MZKT-6922.
The Displacement Time is INA.
The Emplacement Time is INA.
The Fire on the Move is No.
The Note #1 is A battery contains 1 Transporter Erector Launcher and Radar (TELAR) and 2 Transporter Erector Launcher (TEL) vehicles. These are based on a heavily modified IVECO 6x6 commercial  truck chassis. Though there was also a version based on a standard commercial truck chassis, sometimes referred as the Raad-2. Each vehicle carrier 3 missiles. So a single battery has 9 ready-to-fire missiles. A battalion has 4 batteries with 4 TELARs and 8 TELs and can engage multiple targets simultaneously..
The Note #2 is Each battalion additionally includes a Bashir S-band 3D phased array surveillance radar which has a detection range of 350 km. The battalion also has a command and control (C2) unit, based on IVECO truck chassis. The C2 unit provides communication between Raad batteries. Furthermore, the C2 unit can connect other air defense systems of the Raad family, including the improved Tabas and further improved Sevom Khordad, into a single air defense network. This allows to cover large area and targets can be engaged with a wide range of missiles from the cheapest Taer-1 missiles to the most capable Taer-2s. This adds the capability of facing different types of threats with different types of interceptors. In case of heavy jamming when even the X-band engagement radar can’t handle its duty, the C2 unit can provide an additional data link, connecting the system to electro-optical engagement systems of Raad batteries, in order to guide missiles toward targets..

Here is Dimensions (Chassis: MZKT-6922) information for the Ra'ad (Thunder- 1) Iranian Medium-Range Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System:
The Length is 7.5.
The Width is 3.3.
The Height is 5.1.
The Weight, Combat is INA.
The Ground Pressure is INA.

Here is Automotive (Chassis: MZKT-6922) information for the Ra'ad (Thunder- 1) Iranian Medium-Range Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System:
The Engine Name is YaMZ-7513.10-02.
The Engine Type is turbocharged 8-cylinder diesel.
The Engine Power is 420.
The Cruising Range is 1,000.
The Speed, Maximum Road is 80.
The Speed, Off-Road is 30.
The Speed Maximum Swim is Not Amphibious.
The Fording Depth is INA.
The Fuel Endurance is 1,000.

Here is Communications information for the Ra'ad (Thunder- 1) Iranian Medium-Range Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System:
The Primary is INA.

Here is Missile Launcher information for the Ra'ad (Thunder- 1) Iranian Medium-Range Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System of the Missile System:
The Name is INA.
The Type is INA.

Here is Missile information for the Ra'ad (Thunder- 1) Iranian Medium-Range Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System of the Missile System:
The Name is Taer-2.
The Type is Surface-to-Air Missile.
The Basic Load is 3.
The Engine is Solid Fuel Rocket.
The Maximum Effective Range is 50.
The Minimum Effective Range is 1,000.
The Ceiling is 25.
The Speed is Mach 3.5.
The Guidance System is .

Here is Fire Control System information for the Ra'ad (Thunder- 1) Iranian Medium-Range Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System of the Fire Control:
The Name is INA.
The Computerized FCS is Yes.
The Direct Fire is No.
The Indirect Fire is Yes.
The Fire Control Sensors is Yes.
The IADS Integration is INA.
The Camera Optics Range is 80.
The Note is Fire control radars for accurately determining the position of the target in the sky require high resolution and high resolution. Hence, due to the inherent error of several hundred to several hundred meters, the VHF / HF band radar detects positions in air defense sets of these radars only for The initial identification was used and the fire control task was delivered to radar in bands such as x. On the other hand, the range of these radars falls sharply against aircraft with low radar cross-sections..

Here is Radar information for the Ra'ad (Thunder- 1) Iranian Medium-Range Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System of the Fire Control:
The Name is Alam-Al-Hoodi Air Defense System.
The Type is Long-range radar.
The Band is VHF.
The Range is INA.
The Number of Targets System can Track is INA.
The Note #1 is The Alam-Al-Hoodi Air Defense System utilizes a long-range radar in the VHF band (the ability of this frequency spectrum to detect radar cross-sectional targets is very low), as well as parts of the Thunderbolt air defense systems.

Fire control radars for accurately determining the position of the target in the sky require high resolution and high resolution. Hence, due to the inherent error of several hundred to several hundred meters, the VHF / HF band radar detects positions in air defense sets of these radars only for The initial identification was used and the fire control task was delivered to radar in bands such as x. On the other hand, the range of these radars falls sharply against aircraft with low radar cross-sections.

Previously, activities have been seen to use VHF radars for initial detection and transfer of data with lower frequency radars or other types of sensors to control fire and provide practical solutions to counteract the world's most secret targets. But according to information published at the IRGC Aerospace Force, the radar of Alam-al-Hoda (the main radar of the Al-Hoda Air Defense System) is engaged in the discovery, tracing, and directing of fire against targets, which, in view of the inherent problems of the frequency band, Determining the exact location of the goals is unprecedented. Therefore, Irans experts must find a way to overcome this problem.

The radar consists of two main horizontal and vertical sections, which, with its large length of transport, can be folded onto a two-axle trailer, and its displacement capabilities are faster and faster. It should be noted that in general, fuzzy arrays have the ability to quickly scan the environment, have high stability against electronic warfare, and are able to detect and track a large number of targets.

Obviously, as the next target of the Thunderbolt air defense systems is reaching the level of capabilities of systems such as the S-300, other components of this defense suite should also be developed within Iran. Therefore, it can be concluded that the Radar of Al-Hadi as an Iranian example is one of the important species of the Nebo radar, a radar explored as similar to the radars of Bashir and Ghadir and Aliam, each one with the ingenuity and ingenuity of young engineers. Specialists of the Iranian lines have found differences with similar or similar foreign samples forming a modern and integrated set of national air defense.

While the provision of airborne radars and air defense complexes that are in full compliance with indigenous needs is today much more difficult than before, the internal construction of these radars and missiles required not only to meet the basic needs of defense. But on the way to cover more and more of all the necessary areas and, in the long run, will replace the existing systems with modern and native products..
The Note #2 is Each battalion additionally includes a Bashir S-band 3D phased array surveillance radar which has a detection range of 350 km. The battalion also has a command and control (C2) unit, based on IVECO truck chassis. The C2 unit provides communication between Raad batteries. Furthermore, the C2 unit can connect other air defense systems of the Raad family, including the improved Tabas and further improved Sevom Khordad, into a single air defense network. This allows to cover large area and targets can be engaged with a wide range of missiles from the cheapest Taer-1 missiles to the most capable Taer-2s. This adds the capability of facing different types of threats with different types of interceptors. In case of heavy jamming when even the X-band engagement radar can’t handle its duty, the C2 unit can provide an additional data link, connecting the system to electro-optical engagement systems of Raad batteries, in order to guide missiles toward targets..

Here is Protection information for the Ra'ad (Thunder- 1) Iranian Medium-Range Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System:
The Hull Armor is No.
The Turret Armor is No.
The Applique Armor is No.
The Explosive Reactive Armor is No.
The Active Protection System is Thunderbolt Air Defense Systems.
The Mine Clearing is No.
The Self-Entrenching Blade is No.
The NBC Protection is Yes.
The Smoke Equipment is INA.

